close to zero. Before March 1933, people expected a further deflation
and recession so that even interest rates at zero did not stimulate investment. But when Roosevelt announced major regime changes people began to expect inflation
and an economic expansion. With those expectations, interest rates at zero began to stimulate investment as planned. Roosevelt's fiscal and monetary policy regime
change helped to make his policy objectives credible. The expectation of higher future income and higher future inflation stimulated demand and investments. The
analysis suggests that the elimination of the policy dogmas of the gold standard, a balanced budget in times of crises and small government led endogenously to a
large shift in expectation that accounts for about 70–80 percent of the recovery of output and prices from 1933 to 1937. If the regime change had not happened and
the Hoover policy had continued, the economy would have continued its free fall in 1933, and output would have been 30 percent lower in 1937 than in 1933.
[32][33][34]
The recession of 1937–38, which slowed down economic recovery from the great depression, is explained by fears of the population that the moderate tightening of
the monetary and fiscal policy in 1937 would be first steps to a restoration of the pre March 1933 policy regime.[35]
Heterodox theories
Austrian School
Austrian economists argue that the Great Depression was the inevitable outcome of the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve during the 1920s. In their opinion,
the central bank's policy was an "easy credit policy" which led to an unsustainable credit-driven boom. In the Austrian view, the inflation of the money supply during
this period led to an unsustainable boom in both asset prices (stocks and bonds) and capital goods. By the time the Federal Reserve belatedly tightened monetary
policy in 1928, it was too late to avoid a significant economic contraction.[36] Austrians argue that government intervention after the crash of 1929 delayed the
market’s adjustment and made the road to complete recovery more difficult.[37][38]
Acceptance of the Austrian explanation of what primarily caused the Great Depression is compatible with either acceptance or denial of the Monetarist explanation.
Austrian economist Murray Rothbard, who wrote America's Great Depression (1963), rejected the Monetarist explanation. He criticized Milton Friedman's assertion
that the central bank failed to sufficiently increase the supply of money, claiming instead that the Federal Reserve did pursue an inflationary policy when, in 1932, it
purchased $1.1 billion of government securities, which raised its total holding to $1.8 billion. Rothbard says that despite the central bank's policies, "total bank
reserves only rose by $212 million, while the total money supply fell by $3 billion". The reason for this, he argues, is that the American populace lost faith in the
banking system and began hoarding more cash, a factor very much beyond the control of the Central Bank. The potential for a run on the banks caused local bankers
to be more conservative in lending out their reserves, which, according to Rothbard's argument, was the cause of the Federal Reserve's inability to inflate.[39]
Friedrich Hayek had criticised the FED and the Bank of England in the 1930s for not taking a more contractionary stance.[40] However, in 1975, Hayek admitted that
he made a mistake in the 1930s in not opposing the Central Bank's deflationary policy and stated the reason why he had been ambivalent: "At that time I believed that
a process of deflation of some short duration might break the rigidity of wages which I thought was incompatible with a functioning economy.[41] In 1978, he made it
clear that he agreed with the point of view of the Monetarists, saying, "I agree with Milton Friedman that once the Crash had occurred, the Federal Reserve System
pursued a silly deflationary policy", and that he was as opposed to deflation as he was to inflation.[42] Concordantly, economist Lawrence White argues that the
business cycle theory of Hayek is inconsistent with a monetary policy which permits a severe contraction of the money supply.
Hans Sennholz argued that most boom and busts that plagued the American economy in 1819-20, 1839–43, 1857–60, 1873–78, 1893–97, and 1920–21, were
generated by government creating a boom through easy money and credit, which was soon followed by the inevitable bust. The spectacular crash of 1929 followed
five years of reckless credit expansion by the Federal Reserve System under the Coolidge Administration. The passing of the Sixteenth Amendment, the passage of
The Federal Reserve Act, rising government deficits, the passage of the Hawley-Smoot Tariff Act, and the Revenue Act of 1932, exacerbated the crisis, prolonging it.
[43]
Marxian
Marxists generally argue that the Great Depression was the result of the inherent instability of the capitalist model.[44]
Specific theories of cause
Non-debt deflation
In addition to the debt deflation there was a component of productivity deflation that had been occurring since The Great Deflation of the last quarter of the 19th
century.[45] There may have also been a continuation of the correction to the sharp inflation caused by WW I.
Oil prices reached their all-time low in the early 1930s as production began from the East Texas Oil Field, the largest field ever found in the lower 48 states. With the
oil market oversupplied prices locally fell to below ten cents per barrel.[46]
Productivity or technology shock
In the first three decades of the 20th century productivity and economic output surged due in part to electrification, mass production and the increasing motorization
of transportation and farm machinery. Electrification and mass production techniques such as Fordism permanently lowered the demand for labor relative to
economic output.[1][47] By the late 1920s the resultant rapid growth in productivity and investment in manufacturing meant there was a considerable excess production
capacity.[48]
Sometime after the peak of the business cycle in 1923, more workers were displaced by productivity improvements than growth in the employment market could
meet, causing unemployment to slowly rise after 1925.[49] [1] Also, the work week fell slightly in the decade prior to the depression.[50][51][52] Wages did not keep up
with productivity growth, which led to the problem of underconsumption.[1]
Henry Ford and Edward A. Filene were among prominent businessmen who were concerned with overproduction and underconsumption. Ford doubled wages of his
workers in 1914. The over-production problem was also discussed in Congress, with Senator Reed Smoot proposing an import tariff, which became the Smoot
–Hawley Tariff Act. The Smoot–Hawley Tariff was enacted in June, 1930. The tariff was misguided because the U.S. had been running a trade account surplus
during the 1920s.[1]
Another effect of rapid technological change was that after 1910 the rate of capital investment slowed, primarily due to reduced investment in business structures.[47]
The depression led to additional large numbers of plant closings.[19]
It cannot be emphasized too strongly that the [productivity, output and employment] trends we are describing are long-time trends and were thoroughly
evident prior to 1929. These trends are in nowise the result of the present depression, nor are they the result of the World War. On the contrary, the
present depression is a collapse resulting from these long-term trends. — M. King Hubbert[53]
In the book Mechanization in Industry, whose publication was sponsored by the National Bureau of Economic Research, Jerome (1934) noted that whether
mechanization tends to increase output or displace labor depends on the elasticity of demand for the product.[19] In addition, reduced costs of production were not
always passed on to consumers. It was further noted that agriculture was adversely affected by the reduced need for animal feed as horses and mules were displaced
by inanimate sources of power following WW I. As a related point, Jerome also notes that the term "technological unemployment" was being used to describe the
labor situation during the depression.[19]
Some portion of the increased unemployment which characterized the post-War years in the United States may be attributed to the mechanization of
industries producing commodities of inelastic demand. — Fredrick C. Wells, 1934[19]
The dramatic rise in productivity of major industries in the U. S. and the effects of productivity on output, wages and the work week are discussed by a Brookings
Institution sponsored book.[45]
Corporations decided to lay off workers and reduced the amount of raw materials they purchased to manufacture their products. This decision was made to cut the
production of goods because of the amount of products that were not being sold.[6]
Joseph Stiglitz and Bruce Greenwald suggested that it was a productivity-shock in agriculture, through fertilizers, mechanization and improved seed, that caused the
drop in agricultural product prices. Farmers were forced off the land, further adding to the excess labor supply.[54]
The prices of agricultural products began to decline after WW I and eventually many farmers were forced out of business, causing the failure of hundreds of small
rural banks. Agricultural productivity resulting from tractors, fertilizers and hybrid corn was only part of the problem; the other problem was the change over from
horses and mules to internal combustion transportation. The horse and mule population began declining after WW 1, freeing up enormous quantities of land
previously used for animal feed.[19][55][56]
The rise of the internal combustion engine and increasing numbers of motorcars and buses also halted the growth of electric street railways.[57]
The years 1929 to 1941 had the highest total factor productivity growth in the history of the U. S., largely due to the productivity increases in public utilities,
transportation and trade.[58]
Disparities in wealth and income
Economists such as Waddill Catchings, William Trufant Foster, Rexford Tugwell, Adolph Berle (and later John Kenneth Galbraith), popularized a theory that had
some influence on Franklin D. Roosevelt.[59] This theory held that the economy produced more goods than consumers could purchase, because the consumers did not
have enough income.[60][61][62] According to this view, in the 1920s wages had increased at a lower rate than productivity growth, which had been high. Most of the
benefit of the increased productivity went into profits, which went into the stock market bubble rather than into consumer purchases. Thus workers did not have
enough income to absorb the large amount of capacity that had been added.[1]
According to this view, the root cause of the Great Depression was a global overinvestment while the level of wages and earnings from independent businesses fell
short of creating enough purchasing power. It was argued that government should intervene by an increased taxation of the rich to help make income more equal.
With the increased revenue the government could create public works to increase employment and ‘kick start’ the economy. In the USA the economic policies had
been quite the opposite until 1932. The Revenue Act of 1932 and public works programmes introduced in Hoover's last year as president and taken up by Roosevelt,
created some redistribution of purchasing power.[62][63]
The stock market crash made it evident that banking systems Americans were relying on were not dependable. Americans looked towards insubstantial banking units
for their own liquidity supply. As the economy began to fail, these banks were no longer able to support those who depended on their assets – they did not hold as
much power as the larger banks. During the depression, “three waves of bank failures shook the economy.”[64] The first wave came just when the economy was
heading in the direction of recovery at the end of 1930 and the beginning of 1931. The second wave of bank failures occurred “after the Federal Reserve System
raised the rediscount rate to staunch an outflow of gold”[64] around the end of 1931. The last wave, which began in the middle of 1932, was the worst and most
devastating, continuing “almost to the point of a total breakdown of the banking system in the winter of 1932–1933.”[64] The reserve banks led the United States into
an even deeper depression between 1931 and 1933, due to their failure to appreciate and put to use the powers they withheld – capable of creating money – as well as
the “inappropriate monetary policies pursued by them during these years”.[64]
Gold Standard system
New York stock market index
According to the gold standard theory of the Depression, the Depression was largely caused by the decision of most western nations after World War I to return to the
gold standard at the pre-war gold price. Monetary policy, according to this view, was thereby put into a deflationary setting that would over the next decade slowly
grind away at the health of many European economies.
This post-war policy was preceded by an inflationary policy during World War I, when many European nations abandoned the gold standard, forced by the enormous
costs of the war. This resulted in inflation because the supply of new money that was created was spent on war, not on investments in productivity to increase demand
that would have neutralized inflation. The view is that the quantity of new money introduced largely determines the inflation rate, and therefore, the cure to inflation
is to reduce the amount of new currency created for purposes that are destructive or wasteful, and do not lead to economic growth.
After the war, when America and the nations of Europe went back on the gold standard, most nations decided to return to the gold standard at the pre-war price.
When Britain, for example, passed the Gold Standard Act of 1925, thereby returning Britain to the gold standard, the critical decision was made to set the new price
of the Pound Sterling at parity with the pre-war price even though the pound was then trading on the foreign exchange market at a much lower price. At the time, this
action was criticized by John Maynard Keynes and others, who argued that in so doing, they were forcing a revaluation of wages without any tendency to
equilibrium. Keynes' criticism of Winston Churchill's form of the return to the gold standard implicitly compared it to the consequences of the Treaty of Versailles.
One of the reasons for setting the currencies at parity with the pre-war price was the prevailing opinion at that time that deflation was not a danger, while inflation,
particularly the inflation in the Weimar Republic, was an unbearable danger. Another reason was that those who had loaned in nominal amounts hoped to recover the
same value in gold that they had lent. Because of the reparations that Germany had to pay France, Germany began a credit-fueled period of growth in order to export
and sell enough goods abroad to gain gold to pay the reparations. The U.S., as the world's gold sink, loaned money to Germany to industrialize, which was then the
basis for Germany paying back France, and France paying back loans to the U.K. and the U.S. This arrangement was codified in the Dawes Plan.
In some cases, deflation can be hard on sectors of the economy such as agriculture, if they are deeply in debt at high interest rates and are unable to refinance, or that
are dependent upon loans to finance capital goods when low interest rates are not available. Deflation erodes the price of commodities while increasing the real
liability of debt. Deflation is beneficial to those with assets in cash, and to those who wish to invest or purchase assets or loan money.
More recent research, by economists such as Peter Temin, Ben Bernanke and Barry Eichengreen, has focused on the constraints policy makers were under at the time
of the Depression. In this view, the constraints of the inter-war gold standard magnified the initial economic shock and were a significant obstacle to any actions that
would ameliorate the growing Depression. According to them, the initial destabilizing shock may have originated with the Wall Street Crash of 1929 in the U.S., but
it was the gold standard system that transmitted the problem to the rest of the world.[65]
According to their conclusions, during a time of crisis, policy makers may have wanted to loosen monetary and fiscal policy, but such action would threaten the
countries’ ability to maintain their obligation to exchange gold at its contractual rate. The gold standard required countries to maintain high interest rates to attract
international investors who bought foreign assets with gold. Therefore, governments had their hands tied as the economies collapsed, unless they abandoned their
currency’s link to gold. Fixing the exchange rate of all countries on the gold standard ensured that the market for foreign exchange can only equilibrate through
interest rates. As the Depression worsened, many countries started to abandon the gold standard, and those that abandoned it earlier suffered less from deflation and
tended to recover more quickly.[66]
Richard Timberlake, economist of the free banking school and protégé of Milton Friedman, specifically addressed this stance in his paper Gold Standards and the
Real Bills Doctrine in U.S. Monetary Policy, wherein he argued that the Federal Reserve actually had plenty of lee-way under the gold standard, as had been
demonstrated by the price stability policy of New York Fed governor Benjamin Strong, between 1923 and 1928. But when Strong died in late 1928, the faction that
took over dominance of the Fed advocated a real bills doctrine, where all money had to be represented by physical goods. This policy, forcing a 30% deflation of the
dollar that inevitably damaged the US economy, is stated by Timberlake as being arbitrary and avoidable, the existing gold standard having been capable of
continuing without it:
This shift in control was decisive. In accordance with the precedent Strong had set in promoting a stable price level policy without heed to any golden fetters,
real bills proponents could proceed equally unconstrained in implementing their policy ideal. System policy in 1928–29 consequently shifted from price level
stabilization to passive real bills. “The” gold standard remained where it had been—nothing but formal window dressing waiting for an opportune time to
reappear.[67]
Financial institution structures
Economic historians (especially Friedman and Schwartz) emphasize the importance of numerous
bank failures. The failures were mostly in rural America. Structural weaknesses in the rural
economy made local banks highly vulnerable. Farmers, already deeply in debt, saw farm prices
plummet in the late 1920s and their implicit real interest rates on loans skyrocket.
Their land was already over-mortgaged (as a result of the 1919 bubble in land prices), and crop
prices were too low to allow them to pay off what they owed. Small banks, especially those tied to
the agricultural economy, were in constant crisis in the 1920s with their customers defaulting on
loans because of the sudden rise in real interest rates; there was a steady stream of failures among
these smaller banks throughout the decade.
The city banks also suffered from structural weaknesses that made them vulnerable to a shock.
Some of the nation's largest banks were failing to maintain adequate reserves and were investing
heavily in the stock market or making risky loans. Loans to Germany and Latin America by New
York City banks were especially risky. In other words, the banking system was not well prepared
to absorb the shock of a major recession.
Economists have argued that a liquidity trap might have contributed to bank failures.
Economists and historians debate how much responsibility to assign the Wall Street Crash of 1929. The timing was right; the magnitude of the shock to expectations
of future prosperity was high. Most analysts believe the market in 1928–29 was a "bubble" with prices far higher than justified by fundamentals. Economists agree
that somehow it shared some blame, but how much no one has estimated. Milton Friedman concluded, "I don't doubt for a moment that the collapse of the stock
market in 1929 played a role in the initial recession".[68]
The idea of owning government bonds initially became ideal to investors when Liberty Loan drives encouraged this possession in America during World War I. This
strive for dominion persisted into the 1920s. After World War I, the United States became the world’s creditor and was depended upon by many foreign nations.
“Governments from around the globe looked to Wall Street for loans”.[69] Investors then started to depend on these loans for further investments. Chief counsel of the
Senate Bank Committee, Ferdinand Pecora, disclosed that National City executives were also dependent on loans from a special bank fund as a safety net for their
stock losses while American banker, Albert Wiggin, “made millions selling short his own bank shares”.[69]
Economist David Hume stated that the economy became imbalanced as the recession spread on an international scale. The cost of goods remained too high for too
long during a time where there was less international trade. Policies set in selected countries to “maintain the value of their currency” resulted in an outcome of bank
failures.[70] Governments that continued to follow the gold standard were led into bank failure, meaning that it was the governments and central bankers that
contributed as a stepping stool into the depression.
The debate has three sides: one group says the crash caused the depression by drastically lowering expectations about the future and by removing large sums of
investment capital; a second group says the economy was slipping since summer 1929 and the crash ratified it; the third group says that in either scenario the crash
could not have caused more than a recession. There was a brief recovery in the market into April 1930, but prices then started falling steadily again from there, not
reaching a final bottom until July 1932. This was the largest long-term U.S. market decline by any measure. To move from a recession in 1930 to a deep depression
in 1931–32, entirely different factors had to be in play.[71]
Protectionism
Protectionism, such as the Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act, is often indicted as a cause of the Great Depression, with countries enacting protectionist policies yielding a
beggar thy neighbor result.[72][73] The Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act was especially harmful to agriculture because it caused farmers to default on their loans. This event
may have worsened or even caused the ensuing bank runs in the Midwest and West that caused the collapse of the banking system. A petition signed by over 1,000
economists was presented to the U.S. government warning that the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act would bring disastrous economic repercussions; however, this did not
stop the act from being signed into law.
Governments around the world took various steps into spending less money on foreign goods such as: “imposing tariffs, import quotas, and exchange
controls” (Eichengreen, B.). These restrictions formed a lot of tension between trade nations, causing a major deduction during the depression. Not all countries
enforced the same measures of protectionism. Some countries raised tariffs drastically and enforced severe restrictions on foreign exchange transactions, while other
countries condensed “trade and exchange restrictions only marginally”.[74]
“Countries that remained on the gold standard, keeping currencies fixed, were more likely to restrict foreign trade.” These countries became more competitive and
“resorted to protectionist policies to strengthen the balance of payments and limit gold losses.” They hoped that these restrictions and depletions would lead them
towards economic recovery. On the other hand, countries that chose to alleviate the gold standard, allowing fluidity in their currencies, experienced economic
recovery and “benefited from gold inflows”.[74]
There were three options left that could lead economies back to recovery. These options were: “wage and price deflation to restore external and internal balance at the
current gold parity; trade and payments restrictions to limit spending on imports and reduce gold outflows; or abandoning the gold standard and allowing the
exchange rate to depreciate”.[74]
Some economists argue that protectionism was not a cause but a reaction to the depression,[73] with protectionism policies being adopted by countries holding to the
gold standard rather than having floating exchange rates: countries on the gold standard could not cut interest rates or act as lender of last resort because they would
run out of gold, while countries off the gold standard could cut interest rates and print fiat money. In this interpretation, protectionism served to change the terms of
trade for countries whose monetary policy was constrained by the gold standard.
International Debt Structure
When the war came to an end in 1918, all European nations that had been allied with the U.S. owed large sums of money to American banks, sums much too large to
be repaid out of their shattered treasuries. This is one reason why the Allies had insisted (to the consternation of Woodrow Wilson) on demanding reparation
payments from Germany and Austria–Hungary. Reparations, they believed, would provide them with a way to pay off their own debts. However, Germany and
Austria-Hungary were themselves in deep economic trouble after the war; they were no more able to pay the reparations than the Allies were able to pay their debts.
The debtor nations put strong pressure on the U.S. in the 1920s to forgive the debts, or at least reduce them. The American government refused. Instead, U.S. banks
began making large loans to the nations of Europe. Thus, debts (and reparations) were being paid only by augmenting old debts and piling up new ones. In the late
1920s, and particularly after the American economy began to weaken after 1929, the European nations found it much more difficult to borrow money from the U.S.
At the same time, high U.S. tariffs were making it much more difficult for them to sell their goods in U.S. markets. Without any source of revenue from foreign
exchange to repay their loans, they began to default.
Beginning late in the 1920s, European demand for U.S. goods began to decline. That was partly because European industry and agriculture were becoming more
productive, and partly because some European nations (most notably Weimar Germany) were suffering serious financial crises and could not afford to buy goods
overseas. However, the central issue causing the destabilization of the European economy in the late 1920s was the international debt structure that had emerged in
the aftermath of World War I.
The high tariff walls such as the Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act critically impeded the payment of war debts. As a result of high U.S. tariffs, only a sort of cycle kept the
reparations and war-debt payments going. During the 1920s, the former allies paid the war-debt installments to the U.S. chiefly with funds obtained from German
reparations payments, and Germany was able to make those payments only because of large private loans from the U.S. and Britain. Similarly, U.S. investments
abroad provided the dollars, which alone made it possible for foreign nations to buy U.S. exports.
The Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act was instituted by Senator Reed Smoot and Representative Willis C. Hawley, and signed into law by President Hoover, to raise taxes on
American imports by about 20 percent during June 1930. This tax, which aided towards the exceedingly damaged American income and overproduction, was only
beneficial towards the Americans in having to spend less on foreign goods. In contrast, European trading nations frowned upon this tax increase, particularly since
the “United States was an international creditor and exports to the U.S. market were already declining”.[74] In response to the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act, some of
America’s primary producers and largest trading partner, Canada, chose to seek retribution by increasing the financial value of imported goods favoured by the
Americans.
In the scramble for liquidity that followed the 1929 stock market crash, funds flowed back from Europe to America, and Europe's fragile economies crumbled.
By 1931, the world was reeling from the worst depression of recent memory, and the entire structure of reparations and war debts collapsed.
Population dynamics
In 1939, prominent economist Alvin Hansen discussed the decline in population growth in relation to the Depression.[75] The same idea was discussed in a 1978
journal article by Clarence Barber, an economist at the University of Manitoba. Using "a form of the Harrod model" to analyze the Depression, Barber states:
In such a model, one would look for the origins of a serious depression in conditions which produced a decline in Harrod's natural rate of growth, more
specifically, in a decline in the rate of population and labour force growth and in the rate of growth of productivity or technical progress, to a level below
the warranted rate of growth.[76]
The Great Depression in an international context.
Barber says, while there is "no clear evidence" of a decline in "the rate of growth of productivity" during the 1920s, there is "clear evidence" the population growth
rate began to decline during that same period. He argues the decline in population growth rate may have caused a decline in "the natural rate of growth" which was
significant enough to cause a serious depression.[76]
Barber says a decline in the population growth rate is likely to affect the demand for housing, and claims this is apparently what happened during the 1920s. He
concludes:
the rapid and very large decline in the rate of growth of non-farm households was clearly the major reason for the decline that occurred in residential
construction in the United States from 1926 on. And this decline, as Bolch and Pilgrim have claimed, may well have been the most important single
factor in turning the 1929 downturn into a major depression.[77]
The decline in housing construction that can be attributed to demographics has been estimated to range from 28% in 1933 to 38% in 1940.[78]
Among the causes of the decline in the population growth rate during the 1920s were a declining birth rate after 1910[79] and reduced immigration. The decline in
immigration was largely the result of legislation in the 1920s placing greater restrictions on immigration. In 1921, Congress passed the Emergency Quota Act,
followed by the Immigration Act of 1924.
Factors that majorly contributed to the failing of the economy since 1925, was a decrease in both residential and non-residential buildings being constructed. It was
the debt as a result of the war, less families being formed, and an imbalance of mortgage payments and loans in 1928–29 that mainly contributed to the decline in the
amount of houses being built. This caused the populate growth rate to decelerate. Though non-residential units continued to be built “at a high rate throughout the
decade”, the demands for such units were actually very low[64]
Role of economic policy
Calvin Coolidge (1923–29)
There is an ongoing debate between historians as to what extent President Calvin Coolidge's laissez-faire hands-off attitude has contributed to the Great Depression.
Despite a growing rate of bank failures he did not heed voices that predicted the lack of banking regulation as potentially dangerous. He did not listen to members of
Congress warning that stock speculation had gone too far and he ignored criticisms that workers did not participate sufficiently in the prosperity of the Roaring
Twenties.[80]
Leave-it-alone liquidationism (1929–33)
Overview
From the point of view of today's mainstream schools of economic thought, government
should strive to keep some broad nominal aggregate on a stable growth path (for
proponents of new classical macroeconomics and monetarism, the measure is the nominal
money supply; for Keynesian economists it is the nominal aggregate demand itself).
During a depression the central bank should pour liquidity into the banking system and the
government should cut taxes and accelerate spending in order to keep the nominal money
stock and total nominal demand from collapsing.[81]
The United States government and the Federal Reserve did not do that during the 1929-32
slide into the Great Depression[81] The existence of "liquidationism" played a key part in
motivating public policy decisions not to fight the gathering Great Depression. An
increasingly common view among economic historians is that the adherence of some
Federal Reserve policymakers to the liquidationist thesis led to disastrous consequences.
[82] Regarding the policies of President Hoover, economists Barry Eichengreen and J.
Bradford DeLong point out that the Hoover administration’s fiscal policy was guided by
liquidationist economists and policy makers, as Hoover tried to keep the federal budget
balanced until 1932, when Hoover lost confidence in his Secretary of the Treasury
Andrew Mellon and replaced him.[83][84][85] Hoover wrote in his memoirs he did not side
with the liquidationists, but took the side of those in his cabinet with "economic responsibility", his Secretary of Commerce Robert P. Lamont and Secretary of
Agriculture Arthur M. Hyde, who advised the President to "use the powers of government to cushion the situation".[86] But at the same time he kept Andrew Mellon
as Secretary of the Treasury until February 1932. It was during 1932 that Hoover began to support more aggressive measures to combat the Depression.[87] In his
memoirs, President Hoover wrote bitterly about members of his Cabinet who had advised inaction during the downslide into the Great Depression:
The leave-it-alone liquidationists headed by Secretary of the Treasury Mellon ... felt that government must keep its hands off and let the slump liquidate
itself. Mr. Mellon had only one formula: "Liquidate labor, liquidate stocks, liquidate the farmers, liquidate real estate ... It will purge the rottenness out of
the system. High costs of living and high living will come down. People will work harder, live a more moral life. Values will be adjusted, and
enterprising people will pick up the wrecks from less competent people."[81]
Before the Keynesian Revolution, such a liquidationist theory was a common position for economists to take and was held and advanced by economists like Friedrich
Hayek, Lionel Robbins Joseph Schumpeter, Seymour Harris and others.[85] According to the liquidationists a depression is good medicine. The function of a
depression is to liquidate failed investments and businesses that have been made obsolete by technological development in order to release factors of production
(capital and labor) from unproductive uses. These can then be redeployed in other sectors of the technologically dynamic economy. They pointed to the short duration
of the Depression of 1920–21 was due to the policy of letting the liquidation occur and argued that the crisis had laid the groundwork for the prosperity of the later
1920s. They pushed for deflationary policies (which were already executed in 1921) which – in their opinion – would assist the release of capital and labor from
unproductive activities to lay the groundwork for a new economic boom. The liquidationists argued that even if self-adjustment of the economy took mass
bankruptcies, then so be it.[85] Postponing the liquidation process would only magnify the social costs. Schumpeter wrote that it[81]
... leads us to believe that recovery is sound only if it does come of itself. For any revival which is merely due to artificial stimulus leaves part of the
work of depressions undone and adds, to an undigested remnant of maladjustment, new maladjustment of its own which has to be liquidated in turn, thus
threatening business with another (worse) crisis ahead.
Unemployment rate in the US 1910–60, with the years of the
Great Depression (1929–39) highlighted; accurate data
begins in 1939.
Federal spending in millions of dollars (1910–60). The time
period of the Hoover administration, the New Deal and
World War II are highlighted.
Despite liquidationist expectations, a large proportion of the capital stock was not redeployed and vanished during the first years of the Great Depression. According
to a study by Olivier Blanchard and Lawrence Summers, the recession caused a drop of net capital accumulation to pre-1924 levels by 1933.[88]
Criticism
Economists such as John Maynard Keynes and Milton Friedman suggested that the do-nothing policy prescription which resulted from the liquidationist theory
contributed to deepening the Great Depression.[83] With the rhetoric of ridicule Keynes tried to discredit the liquidationist view in presenting Hayek, Robbins and
Schumpeter as
...austere and puritanical souls [who] regard [the Great Depression] ... as an inevitable and a desirable nemesis on so much "overexpansion" as they call
it ... It would, they feel, be a victory for the mammon of unrighteousness if so much prosperity was not subsequently balanced by universal bankruptcy.
We need, they say, what they politely call a 'prolonged liquidation' to put us right. The liquidation, they tell us, is not yet complete. But in time it will be.
And when sufficient time has elapsed for the completion of the liquidation, all will be well with us again...
Milton Friedman stated that at the University of Chicago such “dangerous nonsense” was never taught and that he understood why at Harvard —where such nonsense
was taught— bright young economists rejected their teachers' macroeconomics, and become Keynesians.[81] He wrote:
I think the Austrian business-cycle theory has done the world a great deal of harm. If you go back to the 1930s, which is a key point, here you had the
Austrians sitting in London, Hayek and Lionel Robbins, and saying you just have to let the bottom drop out of the world. You’ve just got to let it cure
itself. You can’t do anything about it. You will only make it worse.… I think by encouraging that kind of do-nothing policy both in Britain and in the
United States, they did harm.[83]
Economist Lawrence White, while acknowledging that Hayek and Robbins did not actively oppose the deflationary policy of the early 1930s, nevertheless challenges
the argument of Milton Friedman, J. Bradford DeLong et al. that Hayek was a proponent of liquidationism. White argues that the business cycle theory of Hayek and
Robbins (which later developed into Austrian business cycle theory in its present-day form) was actually not consistent with a monetary policy which permitted a
severe contraction of the money supply. Nevertheless, White says that at the time of the Great Depression Hayek "expressed ambivalence about the shrinking
nomimal income and sharp deflation in 1929–32".[89] In a talk in 1975, Hayek admitted the mistake he made over forty years earlier in not opposing the Central
Bank's deflationary policy and stated the reason why he had been "ambivalent": "At that time I believed that a process of deflation of some short duration might break
the rigidity of wages which I thought was incompatible with a functioning economy."[41] 1979 Hayek strongly criticized the Fed's contractionary monetary policy
early in the Depression and its failure to offer banks liquidity:
I agree with Milton Friedman that once the Crash had occurred, the Federal Reserve System pursued a silly deflationary policy. I am not only against
inflation but I am also against deflation. So, once again, a badly programmed monetary policy prolonged the depression.[42]
Herbert Hoover (1929–33)
Economic policy
Historians gave Hoover credit for working tirelessly to combat the depression and noted that he left
government prematurely aged. But his policies are rated as simply not far-reaching enough to address the
Great Depression. He was prepared to do something, but nowhere near enough.[90] Hoover was no
exponent of laissez-faire. But his principal philosophies were voluntarism, self-help, and rugged
individualism. He refused direct federal intervention. He believed that government should do more than
his immediate predecessors (Warren G. Harding, Calvin Coolidge) believed. But he was not willing to go
as far as Franklin D. Roosevelt later did. Therefore, he is described as the "first of the new presidents" and
"the last of the old".[91]
Hoovers first measures were based on voluntarism by businesses not to reduce their workforce or cut
wages. But businesses had little choice and wages were reduced, workers were laid off, and investments
postponed. Hoover urged bankers to set up the National Credit Corporation so that big banks could help
failing banks survive. But bankers were reluctant to invest in failing banks, and the National Credit
Corporation did almost nothing to address the problem.[92] In 1932 Hoover reluctantly established the
Reconstruction Finance Corporation, a Federal agency with the authority to lend up to $2 billion to rescue
banks and restore confidence in financial institutions. But $2 billion was not enough to save all the banks, and bank runs and bank failures continued.[93]
Federal spending
J. Bradford DeLong explained that Hoover would have been a budget cutter in normal times and
continuously wanted to balance the budget. Hoover held the line against powerful political forces that
sought to increase government spending after the Depression began for fully two and a half years. During
the first two years of the Depression (1929 and 1930) Hoover actually achieved budget surpluses of about
0.8% of gross domestic product (GDP). In 1931, when the recession significantly worsened and GDP
declined by 15%, the federal budget had only a small deficit of 0.6% of GDP. It was not until 1932 (when
GDP declined by 27% compared to 1929-level) that Hoover pushed for measures (Reconstruction
Finance Corporation, Federal Home Loan Bank Act, direct loans to fund state Depression relief
programs) that increased spending. But at the same time he pushed for the Revenue Act of 1932 that
massively increased taxes in order to balance the budget again.[87]
Uncertainty was a major factor, argued by several economists, that contributed to the worsening and
length of the depression. It was also said to be responsible “for the initial decline in consumption that
marks the” beginning of the Great Depression by economists Paul R. Flacco and Randall E. Parker.
Economist Ludwig Lachmann argues that it was pessimism that prevented the recovery and worsening of
the depression[94] President Hoover is said to have been blinded from what was right in front of him.
USA GDP annual pattern and long-term trend, 1920–40, in
billions of constant dollars.
Economist James Deusenberry argues economic imbalance was not only a result of World War I, but also of the structural changes made during the first quarter of
the Twentieth Century. He also states the branches of the nation’s economy became smaller, there was not much demand for housing, and the stock market crash
“had a more direct impact on consumption than any previous financial panic”[95]
Economist William A. Lewis describes the conflict between America and its primary producers:
Misfortunes (of the 1930’s) were due principally to the fact that the production of primary commodities after the war was somewhat in excess of
demand. It was this which, by keeping the terms of trade unfavourable to primary producers, kept the trade in manufactures so low, to the detriment of
some countries as the United Kingdom, even in the twenties, and it was this which pulled the world economy down in the early thirties….If primary
commodity markets had not been so insecure the crisis of 1929 would not have become a great depression....It was the violent fall of prices that was
deflationary.[96]
The stock market crash was not the first sign of the Great Depression. “Long before the crash, community banks were failing at the rate of one per day”.[69] It was the
development of the Federal Reserve System that misled investors in the ‘20s into relying on federal banks as a safety net. They were encouraged to continue buying
stocks and to overlook any of the fluctuations. Economist Roger Babson tried to warn the investors of the deficiency to come, but was ridiculed even as the economy
began to deteriorate during the summer of 1929. While England and Germany struggled under the strain on gold currencies after the war, economists were blinded by
an unsustainable ‘new economy' they sought to be considerably stable and successful.[69]
Since the United States decided to no longer comply with the gold standard, “the value of the dollar could change freely from day to day”.[70] Although this
imbalance on an international scale led to crisis, the economy within the nation remained stable.
The depression then affected all nations on an international scale. “The German mark collapsed when the chancellor put domestic politics ahead of sensible finance;
the bank of England abandoned the gold standard after a subsequent speculative attack; and the U.S. Federal Reserve raised its discount rate dramatically in October
1931 to preserve the value of the dollar”.[70] The Federal Reserve drove the American economy into an even deeper depression.
Tax policy
In 1929 the Hoover administration responded to the economic crises by temporarily lowering income tax rates and the corporate tax rate.[97] At the beginning of 1931,
tax returns showed a tremendous decline in income due to the economic downturn. Income tax receipts were 40% less than in 1930. At the same time government
spending proved to be a lot greater than estimated.[97] As a result, the budget deficit increased tremendously. While Secretary of the Treasury Andrew Mellon urged
to increase taxes, Hoover had no desire to do so since 1932 was an election year.[98] In December 1931, hopes that the economic downturn would come to an end
vanished since all economic indicators pointed to a continuing downward trend.[99] On January 7, 1932, Andrew Mellon announced that the Hoover administration
would end a further increase in public debt by raising taxes.[100] On June 6, 1932, the Revenue Act of 1932 was signed into law. It raised taxes on all brackets, tripling
the tax rate on the poorest, and on the wealthy he increased taxes from 25% to 63%.[101][102] The higher taxes were first to be paid for the fiscal year 1933 when
coincidently the long recession ended.
Franklin Delano Roosevelt (1933–45)
The New Deal was Roosevelt´s response to the Great Depression. The reception is mixed. While some
historians and economists argue that the New Deal was the key to recovery others argue that it prolonged
the Great Depression.
In a survey of economic historians conducted by Robert Whaples, Professor of Economics at Wake Forest
University, anonymous questionnaires were sent to members of the Economic History Association.
Members were asked to either disagree, agree, or agree with provisos with the statement that read:
"Taken as a whole, government policies of the New Deal served to lengthen and deepen the Great
Depression." While only 6% of economic historians who worked in the history department of their
universities agreed with the statement, 27% of those that work in the economics department agreed.
Almost an identical percent of the two groups (21% and 22%) agreed with the statement "with
provisos" (a conditional stipulation), while 74% of those who worked in the history department, and 51%
in the economic department disagreed with the statement outright.[103]
Arguments for key to recovery
According to Peter Temin, Barry Wigmore, Gauti B. Eggertsson and Christina Romer the biggest primary
impact of the New Deal on the economy and the key to recovery and to end the Great Depression was brought about by a successful management of public
expectations. Before the first New Deal measures people expected a contractionary economic situation (recession, deflation) to persist. Roosevelt's fiscal and
monetary policy regime change helped to make his policy objectives credible. Expectations changed towards an expansionary development (economic growth,
inflation). The expectation of higher future income and higher future inflation stimulated demand and investments. The analysis suggests that the elimination of the
policy dogmas of the gold standard, balanced budget and small government led endogenously to a large shift in expectation that accounts for about 70–80 percent of
the recovery of output and prices from 1933 to 1937. If the regime change would not have happened and the Hoover policy would have continued, the economy
would have continued its free fall in 1933, and output would have been 30 percent lower in 1937 than in 1933.[32][33]
Arguments for prolongation of the Great Depression
In the new classical macroeconomics view of the Great Depression large negative shocks caused the 1929–33 downturn – including monetary shocks, productivity
shocks, and banking shocks – but those developments become positive after 1933 due to monetary and banking reform policies. According to the model Cole-
Ohanian impose, the main culprits for the prolonged depression were labor frictions and productivity/efficiency frictions (perhaps, to a lesser extent). Financial
frictions are unlikely to have caused the prolonged slump.[104][105]
In the Cole-Ohanian model there is a slower than normal recovery which they explain by New Deal policies which they evaluated as tending towards monopoly and
distribution of wealth. The key economic paper looking at these diagnostic sources in relation to the Great Depression is Cole and Ohanian’s work. Cole-Ohanian
point at two policies of New Deal: the National Industrial Recovery Act and National Labor Relations Act (NLRA), the latter strengthening NIRA’s labor provision.
According to Cole-Ohanian New Deal policies created cartelization, high wages, and high prices in at least manufacturing and some energy and mining industries.
Roosevelts policies against the severity of the Depression like the NIRA, a “code of fair competition” for each industry were aimed to reduce cutthroat competition in
a period of severe deflation, which was seen as the cause for lowered demand and employment. The NIRA suspended antitrust laws and permitted collusion in some
sectors provided that industry raised wages above clearing level and accepted collective bargaining with labor unions. The effects of cartelization can be seen as the
basic effect of monopoly. The given corporation produces too little, charges too high of a price, and under-employs labor. Likewise, an increase in the power of
unions creates a situation similar to monopoly. Wages are too high for the union members, so the corporation employs fewer people and, produces less output. Cole-
Ohanian show that 60% of the difference between the trend and realized output is due to cartelization and unions.[104] Chari, Kehoe, McGrattan also present a nice
exposition that’s in line with Cole-Ohanian. .[105]
This type of analysis has numerous counterarguments including the applicability of the equilibrium business cycle to the Great Depression.[106]
See also
◾ Political philosophy
◾ Timeline of the Great Depression
Notes
1. Beaudreau, Bernard C. (1996). Mass Production, the Stock Market Crash and the
Great Depression. New York, Lincoln, Shanghi: Authors Choice Press.
2. Field, Alexander J. (2011). A Great Leap Forward: 1930s Depression and U.S.
Economic Growth. New Haven, London: Yale University Press. p. 182. ISBN 978-
0-300-15109-1<Field cites Freeman & Schwartz (1963), Temin (1976), Bernanke
(1983), Field (1984), Romer (1990), Eighengreen (1992).>
3. Robert Whaples, Where Is There Consensus Among American Economic
Historians? The Results of a Survey on Forty Propositions., Journal of Economic
History, Vol. 55, No. 1 (March 1995), p. 150 in JSTOR.
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/2123771)
4. Robert Whaples, Where Is There Consensus Among American Economic
Historians? The Results of a Survey on Forty Propositions., Journal of Economic
History, Vol. 55, No. 1 (March 1995), p. 143 in JSTOR.
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/2123771)
5. Keen 2000, p. 198.
6. Caldwell, J., & O'Driscoll, T. G. (2007). What Caused the Great Depression?.
Social Education, 71(2), 70-74
7. Paul Krugman, "Who Was Milton Friedman?" New York Review of Books Volume
32, Number 32 · February 3, 2007 online community
(http://www.nybooks.com/articles/19857)
8. Friedman 1965, p. 4.
9. The History of Economic Downturns in the US – But Now You Know.net
(http://butnowyouknow.wordpress.com/those-who-fail-to-learn-fromhistory/
history-of-economic-downturns-in-the-us/)
10. * Bruner, Robert F.; Carr, Sean D. (2007). The Panic of 1907: Lessons Learned
from the Market's Perfect Storm. Hoboken, New Jersey: John Wiley & Sons.
ISBN 978-0-470-15263-8
11. Gold Standards and the Real Bills Doctrine in US Monetary Policy, Richard H
Timberlake, published in Econ Journal Watch, August 2005 –
http://www.econjournalwatch.org/pdf/TimberlakeIntellectualTyrannyAugust2005.pdf
12. Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar publishing, 2003,
ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 11
13. Ben Bernanke, "Non-monetary effects of the financial crisis in the propagation of
the Great Depression", (1983) American Economic Review . Am 73#3 257–76.
14. Friedman 2007, p. 15.
15. (Samuelson 1948, p. 353)
16. Samuelson, Friedman, and monetary policy
(http://krugman.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/12/14/samuelson-friedman-and-monetarypolicy/),
Paul Krugman, New York Times Blog, December 14, 2009
17. Robert Whaples, Where Is There Consensus Among American Economic
Historians? The Results of a Survey on Forty Propositions., Journal of Economic
History, Vol. 55, No. 1 (March 1995), p. 150, in JSTOR
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/2123771?seq=1#page_scan_tab_contents)
18. [1] (http://www.johnmauldin.com/images/uploads/pdf/mwo071811.pdf) Several
graphs of total debt to GDP can be found on the Internet.
19. Jerome, Harry (1934). Mechanization in Industry, National Bureau of Economic
Research.
20. Hansen, Alvin (1939). "Economic Progress and Declining Population Growth".
American Economic Review'. 29 (March).
21. Fisher, Irving (October 1933). "The Debt-Deflation Theory of Great Depressions".
Econometrica. The Econometric Society. 1 (4): 337–357. doi:10.2307/1907327.
JSTOR 1907327.
22. Fortune, Peter (Sep–Oct 2000). "Margin Requirements, Margin Loans, and Margin
Rates: Practice and Principles – analysis of history of margin credit regulations –
Statistical Data Included". New England Economic Review.
23. "Bank Failures". Living History Farm. Retrieved 2008-05-22.
24. "Friedman and Schwartz, Monetary History of the United States", 352
25. Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Edward Elgar Publishing,
2003, ISBN 9781843765509, p. 14-15
26. Bernanke, Ben S (June 1983). "Non-Monetary Effects of the Financial Crisis in the
Propagation of the Great Depression". The American Economic Review. The
American Economic Association. 73 (3): 257–276. JSTOR 1808111.
27. Mishkin, Fredric (December 1978). "The Household Balance and the Great
Depression". Journal of Economic History. 38 (4): 918–37.
doi:10.1017/S0022050700087167.
28. Keen, Steve (2012-12-06). "Briefing for Congress on the Fiscal Cliff: Lessons from
the 1930s - Steve Keen's Debtwatch". Debtdeflation.com. Retrieved 2014-12-01.
29. http://libertyloveandjusticeforall.com/2012/12/08/debt-reset-is-inevitable/
30. Friedersdorf, Conor (2012-12-05). "What If the Fiscal Cliff Is the Wrong Cliff?".
The Atlantic. Retrieved 2014-12-01.
31. "Private Debt Caused The Current Great Depression, Not Public Debt - Michael
Clark". Seeking Alpha. Retrieved 2014-12-01.
32. Gauti B. Eggertsson, Great Expectations and the End of the Depression
(http://www.aeaweb.org/articles.php?doi=10.1257/aer.98.4.1476), American
Economic Review 2008, 98:4, 1476–1516
33. The New York Times, Christina Romer, The Fiscal Stimulus, Flawed but Valuable
(http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/21/business/how-the-fiscal-stimulus-helpedand-
could-have-done-more.html?hp&_r=0), October 20, 2012
34. Peter Temin, Lessons from the Great Depression, MIT Press, 1992, ISBN
9780262261197, p. 87-101
35. Gauti B. Eggertsson, Great Expectations and the End of the Depression
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/29730131), The American Economic Review, Vol. 98,
No. 4 (Sep., 2008), S. 1476-1516, p. 1480
36. Murray Rothbard, America's Great Depression (Ludwig von Mises Institute, 2000),
pp. 159–63.
37. Rothbard, America's Great Depression, pp. 19–21"
38. Mises, Ludwig von (2006). The Causes of the Economic Crisis; and Other Essays
Before and After the Great Depression. Ludwig von Mises Institute. p. 207.
ISBN 978-1933550039.
39. Rothbard, A History of Money and Banking in the United States, pp. 293–94.
40. John Cunningham Wood, Robert D. Wood, Friedrich A. Hayek, Taylor & Francis,
2004, ISBN 9780415310574, p. 115
41. White, Clash of Economic Ideas, p. 94. See alsoWhite, Lawrence (2008). "Did
Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?". Journal of Money, Credit and
Banking. 40 (40): 751–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x.
42. F. A. Hayek, interviewed by Diego Pizano July, 1979 published in: Diego Pizano,
Conversations with Great Economists: Friedrich A. Hayek, John Hicks, Nicholas
Kaldor, Leonid V. Kantorovich, Joan Robinson, Paul A.Samuelson, Jan Tinbergen
(Jorge Pinto Books, 2009).
43. Sennholz, Hans (October 1, 1969). "The Great Depression". Foundation for
Economic Education. Retrieved October 23, 2016.
44. "Lewis Corey: The Decline of American Capitalism (1934)". Marxists.org. 2007-
09-30. Retrieved 2014-12-01.
45. Bell, Spurgeon (1940). "Productivity, Wages and National Income , The Institute of
Economics of the Brookings Institution".
46. Yergin, Daniel (1992). The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money $ Power.
47. Vatter, Harold G.; Walker, John F.; Alperovitz, Gar (2005). "The onset and
persistence of secular stagnation in the U.S. economy: 1910-1990, Journal of
Economic Issues".
48. Beaudreau (1996) cites capacity utilization at 84-86%, which would be a decent
number today; however, there were some industrial leaders who complained of
overcapacity, as did Senator Smoot.
49. Jerome, Harry (1934). Mechanization in Industry, National Bureau of Economic
Research<For the several industries studied industry expansion offset most of the
productivity gains that would otherwise have resulted in many more job losses than
actually occurred. To prevent rising unemployment the laid off workers would have
to have changed industries, but it was noted that even if workers were successful at
such a change the time typically took 18 months or more. The employment
statistics for the 1930 census reflect conditions after the start of the depression so
the actual employment situation prior to the depression is unknown.>
50. "Hours of Work in U.S. History". 2010.
51. Whaples, Robert (June 1991). "The Shortening of the American Work Week: An
Economic and Historical Analysis of Its Context, Causes, and Consequences, The
Journal of Economic History, Vol. 51, No. 2; pp. 454–57".
52. Field, Alexander (2004). "Technological Change and Economic Growth the
Interwar Years and the 1990s" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2012-03-
10.
53. Hubbert, M. King (1940). "Man Hours and Distribution , Derived from Man Hours:
A Declining Quantity, Technocracy, Series A, No. 8, August 1936".
54. Stiglitz, Joseph (2011). "The Book of Jobs". Vanity Fair. Retrieved 2011-12-23
55. Ayres, R. U.; Ayres, L. W.; Warr, B. (2002). "Exergy, Power and Work in the U. S.
Economy 1900–1998, Insead's Center For the Management of Environmental
Resources, 2002/52/EPS/CMER" (PDF)<Fig. 4 in Appendix>From one-sixth to
one-quarter of all land had been used to grow animal feed.
56. Atack, Jeremy; Passell, Peter (1994). A New Economic View of American History.
New York: W.W. Norton and Co. pp. 574–6. ISBN 0-393-96315-2.
57. General Motors and the Decline of Streetcars
(http://debunkportland.com/printables/TQOrigin.pdf)
58. Field, Alexander J. (2011). A Great Leap Forward: 1930s Depression and U.S.
Economic Growth. New Haven, London: Yale University Press. ISBN 978-0-300-
15109-1.
59. David M. Kennedy, 'Freedom From Fear, The American People in Depression and
War 1929–1945, Oxford University Press, 1999, ISBN 0-19-503834-7, pp. 122,
123
60. Dorfman,1959
61. Allgoewer, Elisabeth (May 2002). "Underconsumption theories and Keynesian
economics. Interpretations of the Great Depression" (PDF). Discussion paper no.
2002-14.
62. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p. 108
63. The Road to Plenty (1928)
64. Chapter 15: The Great Depression. (1999). Growth of the International Economy
1820–2000 (pp. 226–34). Taylor & Francis Ltd / Books.
65. Eichengreen 1992, p. xi
66. Bernanke 2002, p. 80
67. Gold Standards and the Real Bills Doctrine in U.S. Monetary Policy, RICHARD H.
TIMBERLAKE
http://www.econjournalwatch.org/pdf/TimberlakeIntellectualTyrannyAugust2005.pdf
68. Parker, p. 49.
69. Chernow, R. (2009, Oct 23). Everyman's financial meltdown. New York Times
(1923-Current File). Retrieved from
http://search.proquest.com/docview/1030683641
70. Temin, P. (2010). The Great Recession & the Great Depression. Daedalus, 139(4),
115–24.
71. White, 1990.
72. Protectionism and the Great Depression
(http://krugman.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/11/30/protectionism-and-the-greatdepression/),
Paul Krugman, New York Times, November 30, 2009
73. The protectionist temptation: Lessons from the Great Depression for today
(http://voxeu.org/index.php?q=node/3280), VOX, Barry Eichengreen, Douglas
Irwin, 17 March 2009
74. EICHENGREEN, B., & IRWIN, D. A. (2010). The Slide to Protectionism in the
Great Depression: Who Succumbed and Why?. Journal Of Economic History, 70
(4), 871–97.
75. Hansen, Alvin (1939). "Economic Progress and Declining Population Growth".
ISBN 978-1162557823<Originally printed in a journal. Reprinted 2004, 2010>
76. Barber, Clarence L. "On the Origins of the Great Depression", Southern Economic
Journal, January, 1978, 44(3), pp. 432–56.
77. Barber, Clarence L. "On the Origins of the Great Depression", Southern Economic
Journal, January 1978, 44(3), pp. 432–56. See also Bolch, B. W. and J. D. Pilgrim,
"A Reappraisal of Some Factors Associated with Fluctuations in the United States
in the Interwar Period." Southern Economic Journal, January 1973, pp. 327–44.
78. Atack, Jeremy; Passell, Peter (1994). A New Economic View of American History.
New York: W.W. Norton and Co. p. 599. ISBN 0-393-96315-2.
79. Longman, Philip (2004). The Empty Cradle: How Falling Birthrates Threaten
World Prosperity And What to Do About It. p. 87. ISBN 0-465-05050-6.
80. Melvin I. Urofsky, The American Presidents: Critical Essays, ISBN 0-8153-
2184-8, p. 391
81. J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real Business Cycle
Theory and the Great Depression (http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?
new_window=1), National Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No.
3546, p. 1
82. White, Lawrence (2008). "Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?".
Journal of Money, Credit, and Banking. 40 (40): 751–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-
4616.2008.00134.x.
83. White, Lawrence (2008). "Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?".
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking. 40 (40): 751–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-
4616.2008.00134.x.
84. J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real Business Cycle
Theory and the Great Depression (http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?
new_window=1), National Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No.
3546, p. 5
85. Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar publishing, 2003,
ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 9
86. Hoover, Herbert. The Memoirs of Herbert Hoover, p. 31
(http://www.ecommcode.com/hoover/ebooks/pdf/FULL/B1V3_Full.pdf) Archived
(https://web.archive.org/web/20081217233238/http://www.ecommcode.com/hoover/ebooks/pdf/FULL/B1V3_December 17, 2008, at the Wayback Machine.
87. Bradford DeLong, What Was Herbert Hoover's Fiscal Policy?
(http://delong.typepad.com/sdj/2011/07/what-was-herbert-hoovers-fiscalpolicy.
html)
88. J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real Business Cycle
Theory and the Great Depression (http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?
new_window=1), National Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No.
3546, p. 33
89. Lawrence White, The Clash of Economic Ideas: The Great Policy Debates and
Experiments of the 20th Century (Cambridge University Press), p. 94.
90. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 4. Auflage, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, pp. 110–11
91. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 4. Auflage, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p. 120
92. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 4. Auflage, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p. 113
93. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 4. Auflage, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p. 114
94. Houck, D. W. (2000). RHETORIC AS CURRENCY: HERBERT HOOVER AND
THE 1929 STOCK MARKET CRASH. Rhetoric & Public Affairs, 3(2), 155–81.
95. Barber, C. L. (1978). "On the Origins of the Great Depression". Southern Economic
Journal, 44(3), 432.
96. Lewis, W. A. Economic Survey, 1919–1929. London: Allen and Unwin, 1949.
97. Roy G. Blakey, Gladys C. Blakey, The Federal Income Tax, 2006, p. 301
98. Roy G. Blakey, Gladys C. Blakey, The Federal Income Tax, 2006, pp. 302–03
99. Roy G. Blakey, Gladys C. Blakey, The Federal Income Tax, 2006, p. 304
100. Roy G. Blakey, Gladys C. Blakey, The Federal Income Tax, 2006, p. 305
101. The Concise Encyclopedia of Economics: The Great Depression
http://www.econlib.org/library/Enc/GreatDepression.html
102. http://www.cato.org/pubs/bp/bp122.pdf
103. Robert Whaples, "Where Is There Consensus Among American Economic
Historians? The Results of a Survey on Forty Propositions", Journal of Economic
History, Vol. 55, No. 1 (Mar., 1995), pp. 139–54 in JSTOR
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/2123771)
104. Cole, Harold L., and Lee E. Ohanian. "The Great Depression from a Neoclassical
Perspective." N.p., n.d. Web.
<https://www.minneapolisfed.org/research/qr/qr2311.pdf>.
105. Chari, V. V., Patrick J. Kehoe, and Ellen R. McGrattan. "Accounting for the Great
Depression." N.p., n.d. Web.
<https://www.minneapolisfed.org/research/qr/qr2721.pdf>.
106. De Vroey, Michel R. "Real Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression: The
Abandonment of the Abstentionist Viewpoint." N.p., n.d. Web.
<http://www.econ.umn.edu/~tkehoe/classes/DevroeyPensieroso.pdf>.
References
◾ Secular Stagnation and Great Depression, R. L. Norman, Jr. (http://www.secularstagnation.com)
◾ Dorfman, Joseph (1959). "Economic Mind in American Civilization"vol 4 and 5 cover the ideas of all American economists of 1918-1933.
◾ Friedman, Milton and Anna Jacobson Schwartz, A Monetary History of the United States, 1867–1960 (1963)
◾ Keen, Steve 2001. Debunking Economics Pluto Press Australia Limited Sydney, Australia
◾ Meltzer, Allan H. 2003 A History of the Federal Reserve Volume I: 1913–1951 Chicago University Press, Chicago, IL
◾ Rothbard, Murray N. 1963 America's Great Depression D. Van Nostrand Company, Princeton, NJ
◾ Rothbard, Murray N. A History of Money and Banking in the United States: The Colonial Era to World War II (2002)
◾ Samuelson, Paul (1948). "Economics".
◾ White, Eugene N. "The Stock Market Boom and Crash of 1929 Revisited" Journal of Economic Perspectives, Vol. 4, No. 2 (Spring, 1990), pp. 67–83;
examines different theories
Further reading
World
◾ Ambrosius, G. and W. Hibbard. A Social and Economic History of Twentieth-Century Europe (1989)
◾ Barber, Clarence Lyle (University of Manitoba) "On the Origins of the Great Depression" (1978)
◾ Bordo, Michael, and Anna J. Schwartz, eds. A Retrospective on the Classical Gold Standard, 1821–1931 (1984) (National Bureau of Economic Research
Conference Report)
◾ Bordo, Michael et al. eds. The Gold Standard and Related Regimes: Collected Essays (1999)
◾ Brown, Ian. The Economies of Africa and Asia in the Inter-War Depression (1989)
◾ Davis, Joseph S. The World Between the Wars, 1919–39: An Economist's View (1974)
◾ Eichengreen, Barry. Golden Fetters: The Gold Standard and the Great Depression, 1919–1939 (NBER Series on Long-Term Factors in Economic
Development), 1996, ISBN 0-19-510113-8
◾ Eichengreen, Barry, and Marc Flandreau, eds. The Gold Standard in Theory and History (1997)
◾ Feinstein, Charles H. The European Economy Between the Wars (1997)
◾ Garraty, John A. The Great Depression: An Inquiry into the Causes, Course, and Consequences of the Worldwide Depression of the Nineteen-Thirties, as Seen
by Contemporaries and in Light of History (1986)
◾ Garraty, John A. Unemployment in History (1978)
◾ Garside, William R. Capitalism in Crisis: International Responses to the Great Depression (1993)
◾ Haberler, Gottfried. The World Economy, Money, and the Great Depression 1919–1939 (1976)
◾ Hall, Thomas E. and J. David Ferguson. The Great Depression: An International Disaster of Perverse Economic Policies (1998)
◾ Kaiser, David E. Economic Diplomacy and the Origins of the Second World War: Germany, Britain, France and Eastern Europe, 1930–1939 (1980)
◾ Kindleberger, Charles P. The World in Depression, 1929–1939 (1983);
◾ Tipton, F. and R. Aldrich. An Economic and Social History of Europe, 1890–1939 (1987)
United States
◾ Ben S. Bernanke. Essays on the Great Depression (2000)
◾ Bernstein, Michael A. The Great Depression: Delayed Recovery and Economic Change in America, 1929–1939 (1989) focus on low-growth and high-growth
industries
◾ Bordo, Michael D., Claudia Goldin, and Eugene N. White, eds. The Defining Moment: The Great Depression and the American Economy in the Twentieth
Century (1998). Advanced economic history.
◾ Chandler, Lester. America's Greatest Depression (1970). economic history overview.
◾ De Long, Bradford. Liquidation Cycles and the Great Depression (1991)
◾ Horwitz, Steven (2008). "Hoover's Economic Policies". In Henderson, David R. Concise Encyclopedia of Economics (2nd ed.). Indianapolis: Library of
Economics and Liberty. ISBN 978-0865976658. OCLC 237794267.
◾ Jensen, Richard J. "The Causes and Cures of Unemployment in the Great Depression," Journal of Interdisciplinary History 19 (1989) 553–83. online at JSTOR
in most academic libraries
◾ McElvaine, Robert S. The Great Depression (2nd ed 1993) social history
◾ Mitchell, Broadus. Depression Decade: From New Era through New Deal, 1929–1941 (1964), standard economic history overview.
◾ Parker, Randall E. Reflections on the Great Depression (2002) interviews with 11 leading economists
◾ Salsman, Richard M. “The Cause and Consequences of the Great Depression” in The Intellectual Activist, ISSN 0730-2355. Mr. Salsman argues that the Great
Depression was fundamentally caused by statist government policy.
◾ Singleton, Jeff. The American Dole: Unemployment Relief and the Welfare State in the Great Depression (2000) (http://www.questia.com/PM.qst?
a=o&d=24419587)
◾ Warren, Harris Gaylord. Herbert Hoover and the Great Depression (1959).
Role of the United States Federal Reserve
◾ Chandler, Lester V. American Monetary Policy, 1928–41. (1971).
◾ Epstein, Gerald and Thomas Ferguson. "Monetary Policy, Loan Liquidation and Industrial Conflict: Federal Reserve System Open Market Operations in
1932." Journal of Economic History 44 (December 1984): 957–84. in JSTOR
◾ Kubik, Paul J., "Federal Reserve Policy during the Great Depression: The Impact of Interwar Attitudes regarding Consumption and Consumer Credit." Journal
of Economic Issues. Vo: 30. Issue: 3. Publication Year: 1996. pp 829+.
◾ Mayhew, Anne. "Ideology and the Great Depression: Monetary History Rewritten." Journal of Economic Issues 17 (June 1983): 353–60.
◾ Meltzer, Allan H. A History of the Federal Reserve, Volume 1: 1913–1951 (2004) the standard scholarly history
◾ Steindl, Frank G. Monetary Interpretations of the Great Depression. (1995).
◾ Temin, Peter. Did Monetary Forces Cause the Great Depression? (1976).
◾ Wicker, Elmus R. "A Reconsideration of Federal Reserve Policy during the 1920–1921 Depression," Journal of Economic History (1966) 26: 223–38, in
JSTOR
◾ Wicker, Elmus. Federal Reserve Monetary Policy, 1917–33. (1966).
◾ Wells, Donald R. The Federal Reserve System: A History (2004)
◾ Wueschner, Silvano A. Charting Twentieth-Century Monetary Policy: Herbert Hoover and Benjamin Strong, 1917–1927 Greenwood Press. (1999)
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Causes_of_the_Great_Depression&oldid=756605201"
Categories: 1920s Great Depression Causes of events
◾ This page was last modified on 25 December 2016, at 13:22.
◾ Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use
and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
1910年-1960年のアメリカ合衆国の年毎の実質GDP。世界恐慌の期間
(1929年-1939年)をピンク色で示した。
世界恐慌の原因
出典: フリー百科事典『ウィキペディア（Wikipedia）』
この記事は検証可能な参考文献や出典が全く示されていないか、不十分です。
出典を追加して記事の信頼性向上にご協力ください。（2009年11月）
この項目「世界恐慌の原因」は途中まで翻訳されたものです。（原文：英語版 "Causes of the Great
Depression" 00:56, 24 August 2012 （UTC） (https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=Causes_of_the_Great_Depression&oldid=508859943)）
翻訳作業に協力して下さる方を求めています。ノートページや履歴 (https://ja.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=%E4%B8%96%E7%95%8C%E6%81%90%E6%85%8C%E3%81%AE%E5%8E%9F%E5%9B%
A0&action=history)、翻訳のガイドラインも参照してください。要約欄への翻訳情報の記入をお忘れなく。
（2016年2月）
世界恐慌の原因(せかいきょうこうのげんいん)は経済学者達の活発な議論の主題となっており、これは広く見れば経済危機に関する議
論の一環でもある。だが一般的には、世界恐慌は1929年の株価大暴落により引き起こされたと信じられている。世界恐慌時に起きた
個々の経済的事件も徹底的に研究されてきた: そういった事件には、資産や商品価格のデフレ、需要と信用の急降下、貿易網の崩壊、
そして究極的に起こる失業とそれに続く貧困などがある。しかしながら、恐慌を引き起こし、あるいは恐慌からの回復をもたらした政府の
経済政策と個々の事件との因果関係は歴史家の間で意見の一致をみていない。
近年では、理論は二つの主流派といくつかの異説に大きく分けられる。
まず、ケインズ経済学や制度派経済学による需要主導モデルの理論では、不景気は消費不足と(それによってバブル経済が引き起こさ
れたところの)過剰投資によって引き起こされたと主張される。需要主導モデルの理論においては、信用が大きく損なわれたことで消費・
投資活動の急激な減少が起きたということで意見が一致している。一たび混乱・デフレが起こると、多くの人々は市場から距離を置くこと
でこれ以上の損失を回避しようとするというのである。このために物価は下がり続け、等量のお金でも多くの物品を買えるようになる。そ
の結果、お金を貯蓄に回すことが有利となり、更なる需要減少に見舞われることになる。
次に、マネタリストらによれば、世界恐慌は通常の不景気として始まったのだが、その時の通貨当局(特に連邦準備制度)による重大な政
策のミスが金融引締めという結果を招き、これによって経済状況が極端に悪化したために通常の不景気から世界恐慌に至ったという。こ
の説明は、負債デフレによって借り手は実質的により多くの債務を負うことになると指摘する人々と関連がある。
このほかにいくつかの異説があり、それらを支持してケインジアンやマネタリストの説明を否定する者がいる。新しい古典派マクロ経済学
者の中には、恐慌初期に課された様々な労働市場政策が長く深刻な世界恐慌を齎したと主張する者もいる。オーストリア経済学派は、
中央銀行の決定がどのようにして誤投資を招くかとマネーサプライのマクロ経済的影響に着目する。
目次
◾ 1 一般理論による説明
◾ 1.1 主流説
◾ 1.1.1 ケインジアン
◾ 1.1.2 マネタリスト
◾ 1.2 異説
◾ 1.2.1 オーストリア学派
◾ 1.2.2 マルクス主義
◾ 2 原因に関する個々の理論
◾ 2.1 負債デフレ
◾ 2.2 負債以外の原因によるデフレ
◾ 2.3 生産に対する衝撃
◾ 2.4 富と収入の不均衡
◾ 2.5 金本位制
◾ 2.6 金融機関の構造
◾ 2.7 保護貿易主義
◾ 2.8 国際的な債権構造
◾ 2.9 集団動力学
◾ 3 経済政策の役割
◾ 3.1 放任清算主義
◾ 3.2 オーストリア学派の政府膨張論
◾ 3.2.1 消費の増大
◾ 3.2.2 新たな公的規制
◾ 3.2.3 税率の引き上げ
◾ 4 関連項目
◾ 5 脚注
◾ 6 参考文献
◾ 7 関連文献
◾ 7.1 世界
◾ 7.2 アメリカ合衆国
◾ 7.3 連邦準備制度の役割
一般理論による説明
主流説
ケインジアン
多くの経済学者がその活動を主張するところの自己修正機構が不景気に働かないことがある理由は複数あると1936年に経済学者ジョ
ン・メイナード・ケインズが主張した。著書『雇用・利子および貨幣の一般理論』においてケインズは、世界恐慌を説明するための概念を導
入した。不景気時における不干渉主義政策に対する一つの主張として、もし貯蓄によって消費が落ち込むならば貯蓄は利率の低下をも
たらすというものがある。古典派経済学者によれば、低い利率は投資の拡大をもたらし需要が持続的になるという。
しかし、利率が低下しても投資が必ずしも活発にならないことの良い説明があるとケインズは主張する。利益を期待しての投資は事業に
よってもたらされる。それゆえ、消費の落ち込みが長期にわたるならば、事業の分析の傾向として将来の売り上げの期待は低いものとな
る。そのため、低利率によって資本が安価になっても将来の生産量を増大させるような投資は最も関心が向かないものとなるのである。
この場合、消費の減少によって経済は一斉安に陥る[1]。ケインズによれば、この自己強化的活動こそが恐慌時に非常に活発になり、倒
産が頻発して(将来に対する楽観的な期待が必要である)投資がほとんど起こらなくなったのだという。この説は経済学者によってしばし
ばセイの法則に反するものとして特徴づけられ、特にオーストリア経済学派に人気がある。
資本投資の減少が恐慌の原因であるという説は長期停滞論の中心的な主題である。
マネタリスト
1963年の著書『米国金融史 1867年-1960年』において、ミルトン・フリードマンとアンナ・シュウォーツは彼ら流の世界恐慌の説明を開陳し
た。彼らの考えによれば、本質的には、世界恐慌はマネーサプライの減少によってもたらされた。フリードマンとシュウォーツは次のように
書いている: 「1929年8月の周期的な山から1933年の周期的な谷までの間に、通貨流通量は3分の1強にまで落ち込んだ。」その結果が
フリードマンいう所の「大収縮」―金融引き締めの窒息効果による収入・物価・雇用の減退―である。この頃、連邦準備制度が供給する
より以上に人々はお金を欲していたのだとフリードマンとシュウォーツは主張する。その結果人々は消費を減らすことでお金を貯蓄した。
また、物価は即座に下落するほど融通が利かないために、結果として、雇用と生産の収縮が起きた。連邦の過ちは何が起こったのか分
からなかったことや正しい対応を取らなかったことにある[2]。
恐慌以降、その主要な説明はマネーサプライの重要性を無視する傾向があった。しかし、マネタリストによれば、恐慌は「事実上、金融の
効果の重要性の悲劇的な証明である[3]。」彼らによれば、連邦準備制度の世界恐慌に対処する上での失敗は、金融政策が無力である
ことの表れではなく、連邦準備制度が間違った政策を実行したことの表れであるという。彼らは連邦が恐慌を「起こした」と主張しているの
ではなく、不景気が恐慌になるのを防ぐ政策を使い損ねたと言っているだけである。
南北戦争後から20世紀初期にかけて、アメリカ合衆国とヨーロッパは政府が規定する形の金本位制を採用していた。この時期のアメリカ
経済は周期的な好不況の波を受けていた。不景気はしばしば銀行不況によって引き起こされていたとみられ、特に重要なものは1873
年、1893年、1901年、1907年、1920年に起こっている[4]。連邦準備制度が1913年に成立する以前のアメリカ合衆国では銀行システムが
紙幣の兌換性を停止することでこうした(1907年恐慌のような)危機に対処していた。1893年に開始して以降、金融機関やビジネスマンに
よる成長努力がこうした危機に介在し、取り付けに喘ぐ銀行に流動性をもたらしていた。1907年の銀行恐慌の際、J・P・モルガンの招集し
たその場限りの連合がこの方法でうまく介入し、それによって恐慌が遮断されており、このため通常銀行恐慌に続いて起こる大恐慌がこ
の時には起こらなかったのだとされる。政府がこうした解決策をとることが要求されたために連邦準備制度が設立されることとなった[5]。
しかし1928年-1932年には、連邦準備制度は取り付けにあえぐ銀行に流動性をもたらすことはなかった。実際にはその政策はマネーサプ
ライの急激な収縮を許すことで銀行危機に応えていた。狂騒の20年代には、中央銀行は第一の目標を「物価の安定」に定めていたが、
これはニューヨーク連邦準備銀行の総裁ベンジャミン・ストロングが、物価の安定を金融目標とした非常に著名な経済学者アーヴィング・
フィッシャーの弟子だからということもある。そういった事情から中央銀行は社会の物価が安定する程度にドルの流通量を保った。1928年
にストロングが死に、彼の死とともにこの政策が終了し、全ての通貨・証券は背後に実際的な物品を裏付けとして持っているべきだという
真正手形学説が取って代わった。この政策の為にアメリカ合衆国のマネーサプライは1929年から1933年の間に3分の1以上に減少するこ
とになった[6]。
この通貨減少によって銀行への取り付けが起こっても連邦は真正手形学説を保持し、1907年恐慌を遮ったときの方法で銀行に貸し付け
ることを拒否し、代わりに各銀行を破滅的な取り付けにあえぐままにさせ完全に没落させた。この政策によって連鎖的な銀行の倒産が起
こり、当時存在した銀行の3分の1が消滅した。[7]。ベン・バーナンキによれば、続いて起こった信用危機によってさらに倒産の波が起こっ
た[8]。1907年と同じ政策が1930年終わりの銀行恐慌の際にも採用されていればこれによって物価下落時の資産の流動化の強制の悪し
き連鎖が防げただろうとフリードマンは述べた。そうしていれば、1893年や1907年に兌換性停止によって当時の流動性危機がすぐに止ん
だのと同じく、1931年、1932年、1933年の銀行恐慌は起こらなかったであろうというのである[9]。
マネタリストによる説明はサミュエルソンの著書『経済学』において否定されており、「連邦準備制度の金融政策を景気循環を制御する万
能薬とみなす経済学者は今日ではほとんどいない。純粋に金融的なファクターは原因であるのと同じだけ徴候であると考えられる、悪化
させる効果を伴っており完全に無視すべきではない徴候ではあるが[10]。」と述べられている。ケインズ経済学者のポール・クルーグマン
によれば、フリードマンとシュウォーツの著作は1980年代までに主流派経済学者の間で支配的になったが、1990年代日本の「失われた
10年」の下に再考されるべきであるという[11]。経済危機における金融危機の役割は世界金融危機 (2007年-)に関する活発な議論で扱わ
れている。世界金融危機 (2007年-)の原因を参照。
異説
世界恐慌初期の取り付け騒ぎ時にニュー
ヨークのアメリカ連合銀行に集まった群衆
オーストリア学派
世界恐慌は1920年代の連邦準備制度の金融政策の避けられない結果だったとオーストリア経済学派は主張している。彼らの意見では、
この中央銀行の政策は持続不可能な信用によるにわか景気をもたらす「安直な信用政策」であった。オーストリア学派の考えでは、この
時期のマネーサプライのインフレが資産価値(有価証券)と資本財の両者において持続不可能なバブルを引き起こしたという。連邦準備
制度が1928年に遅れて金融引き締めを行うまでには、深刻な経済後退を避けるには手遅れになっていた[12]。1929年の大暴落の後の政
府の介入によって市場の調節が遅れ、完全な回復がより困難になる道が開かれたとオーストリア学派は主張している[13]。
世界恐慌の主原因に関するオーストリア学派の説明を受け入れることはマネタリストの説明の否定を受け入れることと両立する。『アメリ
カの世界恐慌』(1963年)の著者でオーストリア経済学派のマリー・ロスバードはマネタリストの説明を否定している。中央銀行はマネーサ
プライを十分に増やすのに失敗したのだというミルトン・フリードマンの主張をロスバードは批判し、代わりに、1932年に連邦準備制度が
11億ドルの米国債を買い入れて所有国債量を18億ドルとした際、連邦準備制度はインフレ政策を追求していたのだと主張する。中央銀
行の政策に反してデフレが深刻化したのは「マネーサプライ総量が30億ドルに達したのに（民間）銀行の準備金の総量は2億1200万ドル
に留まった」ためであり、これはアメリカの大衆が銀行組織に不信感を抱いてさらに多くの預金を銀行から引き出し退蔵したという、中央
銀行の制御を大きく超える理由によるものだと彼は主張する。ロスバードの主張によると、銀行に対する取付のおそれの為に地銀は準
備金の貸し出しにさらに消極的になり、このために連邦準備制度がインフレを起こせなかったという[14]ことになる。
ロスバードがマネタリストの説明を批判したことに対して、もう一人の卓越したオーストリア経済学派のメンバーフリードリヒ・ハイエクは反
対した。ハイエクは、自身が1930年に中央銀行のデフレ政策に反対しなかったことが誤っていたと1975年に認め、曖昧な態度をとったこ
とに関して釈明した: 「当時私は、幾分短い期間におけるデフレの過程は、(経済が機能することと両立不可能だと私が考えていたところ
の)賃金の硬直性を破壊するものだと考えていた[15]。」 1978年には彼は「一たび急落が起こると連邦準備制度は愚かなデフレ政策を追
求するようになるということに関してミルトン・フリードマンに賛成する」と述べてマネタリストの見解に賛成し、デフレに反対してインフレに
賛成することを明らかにした[16]。この流れを汲んで、マネーサプライの強い引き締めを許すような金融政策とハイエクの景気循環理論は
矛盾すると経済学者のローレンス・H・ホワイトが主張している。
マルクス主義
「資本主義#マルクス学派」も参照
マルクス主義者は概して、資本主義モデルに固有の不安定性が世界恐慌を引き起こしたのだと主張する[17]。
原因に関する個々の理論
負債デフレ
詳細は「負債デフレ」を参照
アメリカ合衆国のGDPに対する負債の割合は世界恐慌の時までには300%に達した。この
割合は20世紀終わりまで越えられることはなかった[18]。
ジェローム(1934年)は戦間期の産業の大発展を可能にした財政状態に関する原典不明の
引用をしている:
恐らく未だかつてこの国でこれほどの量の国債がこれほど低い利率、これほど長い
期間にわたって出されたことはなかった[19]。
さらに、スタンダード・スタティスティックス社による60度の国債の指数が1923年の4.98%から
4.47%になった際には新たな資本発行の量が1922年から1929年の年平均から7.7%増加し
たとジェロームは述べている。
1920年代には特にフロリダ州で不動産・住宅のバブルが起こったが1925年に破裂した。
1920年代の住宅建設は人口増加の勢いを25%上回っていたとアルヴィン・ハンセンが述べている[20]。参照:1920年代フロリダの土地バブ
ル
アーヴィング・フィッシャーは、世界恐慌を引き起こした主原因は負債過多とデフレだと主張した。フィッシャーは信用の低下を負債過多と
結びつけ、負債過多が投機熱と資産バブルを刺激したのだとしている[21]。負債・デフレという状況下で相互作用し、バブルが起こり崩壊
する仕組みを作りだした九つの要因を彼は概説している。それら先行する出来事の連鎖は以下:
1. 負債の流動化と占有権の売却
2. 銀行ローンとしてのマネーサプライの緊縮が清算される
3. 資産価格水準の低下
4. 全体としての商業価値の深刻な低下、突然の破産
5. 利益の低下
6. 商業・雇用における生産量の低下
7. 信用の減少とペシミズム
8. お金の死蔵
9. 名目金利の低下と利率にあわせたデフレの拡大[21]
ウォール街大暴落後にウォール街に群がる
群衆
世界恐慌に先行する1929年の急落の際、証拠金規定額は10%にすぎなかった[22]。つまり、
株式仲売業者は投資社が1ドル預けるごとに9ドル貸し付けた。市場が急落した際、業者は
こうしたローンを回収しようとしたが、それは返ってくることはなかった。債務者が債務不履
行を起こし、預金者が一斉に預金を回収しようとすることで取り付け騒ぎが起こり、銀行が
倒産し始めた。こうした騒ぎを食い止めるための政府の保証や連邦準備制度による銀行の
規制は効果がないか使われなかった。銀行の破産により数十億ドルの資産が失われた
[23]。
物価と収入が20-50%減少しているのに負債は同価格であるため、未払いの負債が重くのし
かかった。1929年の混乱の後、1930年最初の10か月間に744のアメリカ合衆国の銀行が破
産した(1930年代には全部で9000ほどの銀行が破産した)。1933年4月までに、3月の銀行の
法定休日の後に無資格の預金や破産した銀行の70億ドルの預金が凍結された[24]。
絶望した銀行家が、借り手が返すお金・時間を持てないほどの勢いで貸付金の回収を行う
とともに銀行の倒産が連鎖的に起こった。予測利益が低いものであったため、資本投資や
建築が停滞した。不良債権や将来の見通しの悪化に直面し、生きのこった銀行は貸付によ
り消極的になった[23]。銀行は基本準備金を増加させるとともに貸し付けを減らし、これに
よってデフレ圧を強めた。悪しき循環が進み、下降スパイラルが増加した。
負債の流動化は自身が引き起こした物価の下降を食い止められなかった。自身の資産を
流動させようという大衆の衝動的行動の大局的効果によってデフレが加速し、資産量減衰
の価値に影響した。自身の負債を減らそうとする個々人の努力こそが事実上それを増大さ
せていた。逆説的だが、負債者が払えば払うほど、彼らは負債を多く抱えることになった
[21]。この自己悪化の過程が1930年の不景気を1933年の世界恐慌へ変えた。
連邦準備銀行の総裁ベン・バーナンキのようなマクロ経済学者がフィッシャーに由来する世界恐慌の負債デフレ説を復活させた[25][26]。
負債以外の原因によるデフレ
負債デフレに加えて、19世紀最後の四半世紀の大デフレ以降に起こった生産性デフレの構成要素が存在した[27] 。第一次世界大戦に
よって起こったインフレを強める補正もおそらく継続していた。
48州で見つかった中でも最大の油田、東テキサス油田が操業して、1930年代には原油価格が歴代最安値に達していた。原油市場にお
ける過剰供給のため価格は10セント/バレルにまで低下していた[28]。参照: 世界恐慌の原因#生産に対する衝撃
生産に対する衝撃
20世紀最初の30年には資本投資と経済生産高が電化・大量生産・輸送機関の電動化・農業の機械化とともに湧き起こり、生産性の急速
な増加により、多くの工場の閉鎖や物価の下落とともに余剰生産能力の増大が見られた[19][29]。結果として、世界恐慌の前の10年には
一週の労働時間が僅かに減少していた[30][31][32]。世界恐慌によってさらに多くの工場が閉鎖した[19]。
「我々の述べる[生産性、生産高、雇用の]傾向が1929年以前に完全に明白だったことをあまり極端に強調することはできな
い。この傾向はこの恐慌の結果では決してないし、世界大戦の結果でもない。そうではなくて、この恐慌はこういった長期に
わたる傾向の結果起こった崩壊なのである[33]。」マリオン・キング・ヒューバート
全米経済研究所の援助により出版されたジェローム『産業の機械化』(1934年)には、機械化が生産高を増大させる傾向を持つのか労働
力を解雇する傾向を持つのかは生産物の要求の弾力性に依存すると述べられている[19]。また、生産コスト現象は必ずしも消費者に還元
されない。さらに、第一次世界大戦以降ウマやラバが非動物の動力に取って代わられるとともに家畜飼料の需要が減少して農業は不利
な影響を被ったと述べられている。「技術的失業」という術語は世界恐慌時の労働環境を表すのに使われるとも『産業の機械化』に記さ
れている[19]。
「戦間期アメリカ合衆国の特徴である失業の増大の幾分かは非弾力的需要に応じた商品を生産する産業の機械化が原因
であるといえるだろう[19]。」フレデリック・C・ウェルズ、1934年
1923年の景気循環の頂点からしばらく後、過剰な労働者が雇用創生と比較して生産性発展により取って代わられており、1925年以降の
失業の拡大を引き起こした[34][29]。
アメリカ合衆国の主要産業の生産性の劇的な拡大とその生産品、賃金、労働時間に対する影響が、ブルッキングス研究所の支援により
出版された書籍の中で議論されている。[27]
肥料、機械化、品種改良を通じた生産性ショックこそが農産物価格の低下を引き起こしたのだとジョセフ・スティグリッツとブルース・グリー
ンウォルドが主張した。農家は過剰な労働力供給を加えた土地に押し込められていたのだという[35]。
農産物価格は第一次世界大戦後に低下し始めた。結果的に多くの農家が商売として農業を成り立たせられなくなり、数百の小規模な地
銀の倒産を招いた。トラクター、肥料、雑種トウモロコシによる農業生産性は問題の一部にすぎなかった; 他の問題とはウマ・ラバから内
燃力輸送機関への転換であった。ウマ・ラバの数は第一次世界大戦以降減少し始め、家畜飼料を生産していた大量の土地が余るように
なった[19][36]。
自動車・バスが電車の発展を止めるようになった[37]。
富と収入の不均衡
ウォディル・キャッチングズ、ウィリアム・トゥルファント・フォスター、レックスフォード・タグウェル、アドルフ・バール(、そして後にはジョン・ケ
ネス・ガルブレイス)といった経済学者はフランクリン・ルーズベルトに幾分かの影響を与えた理論を普及させた[38]。その理論とは、経済
が、消費者に十分な収入がないにもかかわらず、消費者が購入できる以上の商品を生産してしまった、というものである[39][40][41]。この説
によれば、1920年代の賃金の上昇率は生産性の上昇率を下回っていたのである。生産性が増大したことによる恩恵のほとんどは利潤と
なってしまい、それは株式市場バブルを引き起こしたものの、消費者の購買行動には繋がらなかった。このように、1920年代を通じて富
が不平等に分配されたことが世界恐慌を引き起こしたという。
この説によれば、世界恐慌の根本的な原因は、独立企業による賃金・収入の水準が十分な購買力を生み出すに達していないにもかか
わらず行われた世界的な過剰投資である。また、政府は富裕層に対する課税を重くすることで収入をより平等にすべきだった、と主張さ
れる。政府は、歳入の増加を利用して公共事業を行って雇用を増加させることで経済を「蹴って始動」させられた、という。だがアメリカ合
衆国では1932年まで、これとは正反対の経済政策が行われていたのである。大統領退任前年のハーバート・フーヴァーに紹介されフラ
ンクリン・ルーズベルトによって採用されることになった<1932年歳入法>や公共事業計画が、購買力をある程度再分配することに成功し
たのである[42][43]。
金本位制
世界恐慌の金本位制理論によれば、恐慌の原因は主に、第一次世界大戦後の西側諸国が戦前の値段に基づく金本位制に復帰しようと
したことにである。この説によれば、これによって金融政策がデフレ志向になり10年間にわたってヨーロッパの多くの国の経済の健全性を
害し続けたという。
この戦後政策に先駆けてインフレ政策がとられていた第一次世界大戦中には、多くのヨーロッパ諸国は戦費の激増により金本位制を廃
止せざるを得なかった。この結果、新しく作られた金の供給がインフレを中和させる生産性への投資ではなく戦費に使われたため、インフ
レが起こった。この説は、大量に導入された金の量によってインフレ率が決まり、それゆえインフレへ導くことが、破壊的・消費的であって
経済成長を導かない目的のために造られた新貨幣の総量を減少させるというものである。
戦後アメリカやヨーロッパ諸国が金本位制に復帰した際、多くの国は戦前の水準の金-通貨レートをとった。例えばイギリスでは1925年に
金本位法が国会を通過し、これによって金本位制に復帰した際、当時外国為替市場で戦前よりもずっと低い価格でポンドが取引されて
いたにもかかわらずスターリング・ポンドを戦前と等価に設定するという致命的な決定を行った。当時ジョン・メイナード・ケインズらは、政
府はそうすることによって釣り合いが取れていないような賃金再設定を強いているのだと主張してこの決定を批判した。ウィンストン・
チャーチルが金本位制に復帰させたことに対するケインズの批判はこれを暗にヴェルサイユ条約の結果と比較するものであった。
戦前と等価にしようという傾向が生まれた理由として一つは、デフレは危険ではないのに対してインフレは、特にヴァイマール共和国に見
られるインフレは耐え難い危険であるという当時優勢であった意見があった。もう一つの理由として、額面価額で貸し付けている者は自
身が貸し付けたのと同価値の金を回復できる期待があったというものがある[citation needed]。フランスに支払わなければならない巨額
の賠償金を支払うための外貨を獲得するのに十分な商品を輸出・販売するために、ドイツは信用を犠牲にした成長の時代に入った。世
界の金の溜まる場所としてのアメリカ合衆国はドイツがフランスに償還するための基盤として産業化するための資金を貸し付け、フランス
はイギリスおよびアメリカに償還した。この流れはドーズ案に明文化された。
非常に高利の借金をして再融資もできない状態にあるか、低利率ではないときに資本財に融資するための貸し付けに依存している場
合、農業のような産業分野にとってデフレは辛いものとなりうる。負債の実質的価値が増加しているのに対して物価はデフレに浸食され
ていく。資産を現金で保持している者や、資産を投資・購買に充てたり資金を貸し付けたりしようとしている者にとってはデフレは有益であ
る。
ピーター・テミン、ベン・バーナンキ、バリー・アイケングリーンといった経済学者によるより近年の研究は、世界恐慌時に緊縮政策がとら
れていたことに着目している。この考え方によれば、戦間期の金本位制下での緊縮は最初の経済的ショックを拡大し、恐慌を食い止める
あらゆる行動に対して大きな障害となったという。彼らによれば、最初の不安定化させる衝撃はアメリカ合衆国のウォール街大暴落に起
因するが、外国に問題を伝播させたのは金本位制であるという[44]。
彼らの出した結論によると、危機の時代の政策決定者たちは金融政策・財政政策を緩和しようとしたが、そのような行動が、契約上の率
で金を交換する義務を維持する国家の能力を脅かしたという。外国の資産を金で買おうとする国際的投資家を引き付けるために、金本
位制は高利率を維持することを要求する。そのため、金本位制を廃止しない限り、政府は景気の急落にも手をこまねいているほかない。
金本位制をとる全ての国の交換比率を修正することで、外国為替市場が利率の平衡を保つ事だけは保証される。恐慌が悪化すると多く
の国が金本位制を廃止し始め、より早く廃止した国々はより少なくデフレの影響を受けてより早くデフレから回復する傾向があった[45]。
自由銀行制派経済学者にしてミルトン・フリードマンの弟子のリチャード・ティンバーレイクは自身の立場を『アメリカ合衆国の金融政策に
みられる金本位制と実質手形原理』で明確に説明したが、この論文での彼の主張によると、連邦準備制度は実は金本位制化においてか
なりの余裕を持っており、そのことがニューヨーク連邦準備銀行総裁ベンジャミン・ストロングによる1923年から1928年の物価安定政策に
よって証明されたという。しかし1928年後半にストロングが没すると、ニューヨーク連邦準備銀行の支配権を引き継いだ派閥が、全ての金
は実際の商品によって代表されなければならないという実質手形原理を唱道した。ドルに30%のデフレを強いて当然合衆国経済に損害
を与えたこの政策は恣意的で、避けられるものであって、金本位制はこれなしに存続できたとティンバーレイクが述べている:
金の管理におけるこの移行は決定的であった。ストロングは前任者に従って金本位制という足かせに頓着せずに物価安定政策を
実行し、実質手形原理の支持者は自身の理想とする政策を実行する上で同様に束縛を受けずに済んだ。1928年-1929年のシステ
ムポリシーは結果的に物価安定から受動的な実質手形に移行した。「この」金本位制はそれが再出現するのに好都合な時を待つ
形式的な見せ掛けでしかない場所で残存した[46]。
金融機関の構造
経済史家(特にフリードマンとシュウォーツ)が多くの銀行が倒産したことの重要性を強調する。倒産は主にアメリカの地方で起こった。地
域経済の構造的な脆弱性によって地銀が非常に貧弱になっていたのである。農家は既に多額の負債を抱えており、1920年代に農場価
格が急落するのと負債の予想実質比率が跳ね上がるのとを目にした。
ニューヨーク株価指数
彼らの土地は(1919年の地価バブルの結果として)過剰に法的義務
を負わされており、穀物の価格が低いために彼らは所有物を売り
払うことを強いられた。小銀行、特に農業経済と結びついた小銀行
は1920年代には突然の実質利率の上昇による顧客の債務不履行
のために常に危機的状況にあった; こういった小銀行の間には20
年代を通じて既に倒産の波が押し寄せていたのである。
都銀もまたショックへの弱さをもたらす構造的脆弱性に苦しんでい
た。国内最大の銀行の中には適量の準備金を保持せずに、株式市
場で大量の投資を行ったりリスクの高い貸し付けを行ったりするも
のもあった。ニューヨーク市銀によるドイツやラテンアメリカへの貸し
付けは特に高リスクであった。つまり、銀行機構は大不景気の
ショックを低減するように十分に準備されていなかったのである。
ウォール街大暴落に関する事実をどれだけ特定できるか経済学
者・歴史家が議論している。時期は明らかである。; 将来の利益に
対する期待への衝撃は甚大であった。1928年-1929年の市場はファ
ンダメンタルズによって定められたよりも極端に物価が高い「バブ
ル」であったとほとんどのアナリストが考えている。そのことに何らかの点で責任があるが、どれだけ責任があるかを推量することはでき
ないと経済学者たちは認めている。「1929年の株式市場の崩壊が最初の不景気に役割を果たしたことは片時も疑えない[47]」とミルトン・
フリードマンが結論付けている。
議論は三つのグループに分かれている: 最初のグループは、急落が将来の予想の劇的な低下と大量の資本投資の撤退とによって恐慌
を引き起こしたと述べる; 第二のグループは、1929年夏に景気がずり落ちて急落がそれを追認したと述べる; 第三のグループは、どちら
のシナリオにおいても急落は不景気を引き起こす以上のことはなしえないと述べる。市場は1930年4月には一旦回復したが、それ以降物
価は再び下がり続け、1932年7月にやっと最終的な底値に達した。これはどう計ってもアメリカ合衆国で最長期間の市場の衰退である。
1930年の不景気から1931年-1932年の大恐慌への遷移の為に、全く異なる要因が役割を果たしたのである[48]。
保護貿易主義
スムート・ホーリー法にみられるような保護貿易主義は、保護貿易主義政策をとってその結果近隣窮乏化政策に至った国々とともに、世
界恐慌の原因としてしばしば挙げられる[49][50]。スムート・ホーリー法は農家の債務不履行を招いており、特に農業に対して有害であっ
た。この出来事により中西部や西部での取り付けが起こったか悪化したかして、その結果銀行機構が崩壊した。1000人以上の経済学者
が署名した嘆願書が連邦政府に提出され、その嘆願書中でスムート・ホーリー法が経済に壊滅的な影響をもたらすという警告がなされ
た; しかし、これによってスムート・ホーリー法の議会通過が覆ることはなかった。
変動相場制ではなく金本位制をとる国で保護貿易主義が採用されたことを鑑み、保護貿易主義は恐慌の原因ではなく恐慌に対する「反
応」であったと主張する経済学者もいる[50]: 金本位制をとる国々は利率を切り下げたり最後の貸し手となったりすることができなかった、
というのはそれらの国々はいずれ金を切らすが、金本位制を取らない国々は利率を切り下げて不換紙幣を印刷することができるからで
ある。この解釈の下では、保護貿易主義は、金融政策が金本位制に縛られている国々の貿易条件を変化させるのに一役買ったといえ
る。
国際的な債権構造
1918年に終戦を迎えると、ヨーロッパの国でアメリカ合衆国と提携している国は全てアメリカの銀行から多額の借金をし、その借金の総
額はそれらの国々の大戦で蕩尽された国庫では支払いきれないほどになった。これが、連合国がドイツやオーストリア・ハンガリーに対し
て(ウッドロウ・ウィルソンを驚嘆させたほどの)賠償金を要求した理由の一つである。連合国の信ずるところによれば、賠償金のおかげで
連合国は負債を清算する目途がたつはずだった。しかし、ドイツとオーストリア・ハンガリー自身が戦後に深刻な経済危機に陥っていた;
連合国が負債を支払えない以上にドイツとオーストリア・ハンガリーが賠償金を支払えないという状況であった。
債務国は1920年代にアメリカ合衆国に負債の免除か少なくとも負債の軽減を行うことを強く要求した。対するアメリカ政府はその要求を
拒否した。代わりに、アメリカの銀行が欧州諸国に対して大規模な貸し付けを始めた。そのため、負債(と賠償金)は古い負債を増額させ
て新しい負債を積み重ねることによってのみ支払われる。1920年代後半には、特にアメリカ経済が1929年以降に弱体化してからは、欧
州諸国がアメリカからさらに金を借りるのが困難になった。同時に、アメリカの高い関税によって、欧州諸国が商品をアメリカ市場で売る
のが非常に困難になった。借金を払い戻すために貿易によって収入を得ることもできず、欧州諸国は債務不履行を起こし始めた。
1920年代後半になると、ヨーロッパのアメリカに対する商品需要は減少し始めた。これは、ヨーロッパの産業・農業の生産性が増したから
というのもあるし、いくつかの欧州諸国(最も顕著なのはヴァイマル共和制下のドイツ)が深刻な経済危機にあえいでいて外国の商品を買
う余裕がなかったからというのもある。しかし、1920年代後半にヨーロッパ経済を不安定化させた主原因は、第一次世界大戦の余波の中
で起きた国際的債権構造である。
スムート・ホーリー法のような関税障壁によって戦争負債の支払いが致命的に妨害された。アメリカ合衆国の高関税の結果、ある種の循
環のみによって賠償金や戦争支払いの続行がなされた。1920年代に、かつての連合国は主にドイツの賠償金支払いによって得られた
資金によって戦争負債を分割支払いし、ドイツはアメリカ合衆国とイギリスからの私的な借金によってのみ支払うことができた。同様に、
アメリカが海外に投資したドルのみによって諸外国がアメリカの輸出品を購入することができた。
1929年の株式市場急落に続く流動性の奪い合いの中、ヨーロッパからアメリカへ資金が回収され、ヨーロッパの脆弱な経済が砕け散っ
た。
1931年までに、世界は近現代で最悪の恐慌によってがたつき、賠償金や戦争負債の構造全体が崩壊した。
10億固定ドル価による1920年-1940年のアメリカ合衆国の年毎
のGDPと長期間の趨勢
集団動力学
1939年に、著名な経済学者アルヴィン・ハンセンが恐慌と連動して人口増加率が減少すると主張した[51]。同じ説が1978年の雑誌記事で
マニトバ大学の経済学者クラレンス・バーバーによって主張された。一種のハロッド・ドーマーモデルを用いて世界恐慌を分析し、彼はこう
述べている:
「このモデルでは、ハロッドの自然成長率の減少を生み出す状況に、より具体的には人口増加率、労働力増加率、生産性・技術発
展性の増加率が正当な成長率以下にまで減少している中に、深刻な恐慌の起源を探ることになる[52]。
1920年代の「生産性成長率」の減少の「はっきりした証拠はない」が、同時期の人口増加率現象の「はっきりした証拠」はあるとバーバー
は述べている。深刻な恐慌を引き起こすうえで十分重要な「自然成長率」の減少は人口増加率現象によって起きたのであろうと彼は述べ
ている[52]。
バーバーは、おそらく人口増加率の減少が住宅需要に影響したのだろうと述べ、これが1920年代に起こったことと見受けられると主張し
ている。かれはこう結論している:
「農家以外の家庭の急速で非常に大規模な増加率減少こそが明らかに、1926年以降のアメリカ合衆国の住宅建築界に起こったこ
とである。そしてこの減少が、ボルチとピルグリムが主張し続けているように、1929年の都心の大恐慌への転換の最も重要な一要
因なのであろう[53]。」
1920年代の人口増加率現象の原因の中には1910年以降の出産率低下[54]や移民の減少がある。移民の減少は主に1920年代に大幅な
移民抑制策がとられたことにある。1921年に緊急移民制限法が議会を通過し、続いて1924年移民法が制定された。
経済政策の役割
放任清算主義
今日の主流派経済学派の考えでは、政府は広く名目上の累計を安定した
成長傾向に留めておくよう努力すべきだった(新しい古典派やマネタリストに
とって、基準は名目マネーサプライである; ケインズ経済学派にとって、基
準は名目総需要それ自体である)。名目マネーストックと総名目需要を急落
しないよう保つために、恐慌期には、中央銀行は銀行機構に流動性を注入
するべきであり、政府は税率を切り下げ消費を促進すべきであった[55]。
連邦政府と連邦準備制度は1929年-1932年にこれを行わず、世界恐慌へと
陥った。経済史家の間で一般的になってきている説では、連邦準備制度の
政策決定者たちの清算主義理論への執着が破滅的な結果を招いたとされ
る[56]。「清算主義」の存在が世界恐慌という宿痾と戦わない公共政策を決
定する動機づけをするうえで重要な役割を果たした。フーヴァー大統領はこ
う書いている:[57]
“ メロン財務長官に率いられた放任清算主義者たちが[...]政
府は手を出さずにスランプ自己清算するのに任せるべきだ
と感じている。メロン氏はたった一つの方策を持っている:
「労働を清算せよ、株式を清算せよ、農家を清算せよ、不動
産を清算せよ」[...]「それによってシステムから腐敗が排除
される。高額の生命、高い生命は低下する。人々はより働
き、より道徳的に生活するようになる。価値観が調節され、
人々を楽しませることが競争力に劣る人々の破滅を防ぐ。」”
「ケインジアン革命」以前は、このような清算主義理論が経済学者のとる一般的立場であり、フリードリヒ・ハイエク、ライオネル・ロビン
ズ、ヨーゼフ・シュンペーター、シーモア・ハリスといった経済学者によってこの理論が主張・発展させられた[58]。清算主義者によれば恐慌
は良薬である。恐慌の機能は、非生産的な使用から生産の要因(資本と労働)を解放するために、技術的発展のために時代遅れとなり失
敗した投資・ビジネスを清算することだとされた。それらの要因は技術的に活発な経済分野に回された。彼らは1920年-1921年の恐慌に
言及して、この恐慌は1920年代後半の繁栄の基礎を築いたと主張した。彼らは(1921年に既に実行されていた)デフレ政策をとることを要
求し、この政策は資本・労働力を非生産的な活動から解放して新たな経済的バブルの基礎を築くのに使うものだと主張した。経済の自己
調節が大量の倒産を起こすとしても、そうなるのに任せておくべきだと清算主義者たちは主張した[59]。というのは、聖餐過程を延期するこ
とは徒に社会的コストを増大させるだけだと彼らが考えていたからである。シュンペーターの著作によれば、それは[60]
“ [...]回復は、ひとりでに起こったときにのみ健全であると私たちに信じさせてくれる。人工的な刺激のみによるいかなる復
活も、十分に恐慌の働きが行き届かない部分を残し、環境不適応だった部分が消化され切らずに残った部分に対してそ
れ自体の新たな環境不適応が加えられ、それがまた生産を必要とするようになり、後々に別の[より悪い)危機によって商
業を脅かすのである。”
清算主義者の期待に反して、株式資本の大部分は世界恐慌一年目に転換・消去されなかった。オリヴィエ・ブランチャードとローレンス・
サマーズの研究によれば、1933年までに不景気によって1924年以前のレベルの資本蓄積が起こった[61]。
ジョン・メイナード・ケインズやミルトン・フリードマンといった経済学者は、清算主義理論から帰結する放置策が世界恐慌の深刻化に資し
たと主張している[62]。ケインズは嘲笑のレトリックによって、ハイエク、ロビンズ、シュンペーターを以下のように表すことで清算主義思想
の信用を失わせようとした。
“ [...]禁欲的・清教徒的な心根が[世界恐慌を][...]彼らの言うところの「過膨張」にたいする不可避にして望ましい報いとして
扱う[...]。それは、過剰な繁栄が続く全体的な倒産によってバランスがとられなかったときに、不正な富に対して起こる勝
利だと彼らは感じている。自分たちが丁重にも「延期された清算」と呼ぶものが自分たちを正してくれることを望むと彼ら
は述べている。彼らが我々に述べるところによると、清算は未だ完了していない。しかしやがては完了する。そして清算
が完了するのに十分な時間がたてば、全ては再び我々にとって良くなる[...]
”
ミルトン・フリードマンは、こういった「危険なナンセンス」はシカゴ大学では決して教えられていないこと、なぜ(このナンセンスが教えられ
ている)ハーヴァードで若く明敏な経済学者達が自分たちの師のマクロ経済学を否定してケインジアンに転向するのかを自分は分かって
いること、を述べた[63]。彼はこう書いている:
“ 私が思うにオーストリア学派の景気循環理論は世界に大きな悪影響をもたらした。あなたがキー・ポイントたる1930年代
に戻れば、ロンドンにオーストリア学派がはびこっているのが見られて、ハイエクやライオネル・ロビンズに世界が景気の
底にあるのを放置しろと言われるだろう。あなたはそれに従って景気が自己回復するに任せることになるだろう。それに
対して何かをすることは許されない。何をしてもより悪くなるだけなのだから。[...]私が思うにこの種の放置策に焚き付けら
れて、イギリスでもアメリカでも彼らは害を為したのである[64]。”
経済学者ローレンス・H・ホワイトは、ハイエクとロビンズが1930年代初期のデフレ政策に積極的には反対しなかったことを認めたが、そ
れにも関わらず、ハイエクが清算主義の唱道者であったというミルトン・フリードマン、ジェームズ・ブラッドフォード・デロングその他の主張
に挑戦した。ハイエクとロビンズの景気循環理論(後に今日知られているようなオーストリア景気循環理論に発展する)は実はマネーサプ
ライの強い引き締めを許すような金融政策とは矛盾するものだったとホワイトは主張する。それにもかかわらず、世界恐慌の際にはハイ
エクは「1929年-1932年の強いデフレと名目収入の萎縮に曖昧な態度をとった[65]」とホワイトは述べている。1975年の講話で、ハイエクは
自身が40年以上前に中央銀行のデフレ政策に反対しなかったことの非を認め、曖昧な理由をとったことの理由を説明した: 「当時私はあ
る程度短期間のデフレの過程は、経済が機能することと相容れないと私が考えていた賃金の硬直性を破壊すると信じていた[66]。」その
三年後、ハイエクは世界恐慌初期の連邦の突然のマネーサプライの引き締めと連邦が銀行に流動性を供給するのに失敗したことを強く
批判した:
“ 「一たび急落が起こると連邦準備制度が愚かなデフレ政策に走ったという点に関して私はミルトン・フリードマンに同意す
る。私は単にインフレに反対しているのではなく、デフレにも反対している。だから、もう一度、間違って計画された金融政
策が恐慌を引き延ばす[67]。”
オーストリア学派の政府膨張論
消費の増大
フーヴァーが連邦政府の消費を50%引き上げたのは効果的だった。ほとんどの増大が1932年に起こり、それに同調して長い不景気が
ゆっくりと終わりを迎えた。オーストリア経済学派の中でも自由銀行制派に属する経済学者スティーヴン・ホーウィッツは、短い不景気だっ
たはずのものを長引かせて「大恐慌」にしてしまったとしてフーヴァーの消費を責めている:
短い不景気に終わるはずだったものを、より深刻で、ずっと長い大恐慌に変えてしまったという批判をハーヴァート・フーヴァーはう
まく捌いている[...]彼は恐慌と戦うために政府の役割を大きく拡張した[...]その結果は、不幸なことに(しかし驚くべきことではなく)、
火と上手く戦ったというよりもむしろ炎を煽った[68]。
デイヴィッド・ワインバーガーは、このアプローチを、ウィルソンの強い連邦政府が引き起こした恐慌の下で経済を劇的に刺激したと彼が
述べた(正当なチャートにおいても見られる)クーリッジ政権下の消費・税・赤字の切り下げと対比した[69]。クーリッジ政権の商務長官とし
てフーヴァーが消費増大とクーリッジの下での規制を奨励したが、多くの部分を1929年に彼自身が実行したことに彼は注目する[70]。GDP
に占める連邦の消費が成長し続けていたことを発見したランダル・グレゴリー・ホルコムが述べているように、フーヴァーの下でのこの大
成長はフーヴァーによる景気下降で歳入を減らしたとしても事実連邦準備制度の下で以上の事がなされたことは明らかだという[71]。
新たな公的規制
著書『アメリカの世界恐慌』、『ハーバート・フーヴァーの恐慌』その他において、マリー・ロスバードは、フーヴァーが示した産業・農業・雇
用といった分野における新たな連邦規制の一覧を提示したが、彼はそれを世界恐慌をもたらした連邦準備制度の干渉主義と結びつけて
述べた[72]。
税率の引き上げ
1932年にフーヴァーは歳入法を制定して税率を劇的に引き上げた。彼はあらゆる層に対する税を引き上げ、最貧困層に対する税を三倍
にして富裕層に対する税率を25%から63%に上げた[73][74]。この高率の税は会計年度であり長い不景気が終わった年に同調して支払わ
れた。
関連項目
◾ 政治哲学
◾ 世界恐慌のタイムライン
脚注
1. ^ Keen 2000, p.198.
2. ^ Paul Krugman, "Who Was Milton Friedman?" New York Review of
Books Volume 32, Number 32 · February 3, 2007 online community
(http://www.nybooks.com/articles/19857)
3. ^ Friedman 1965, p.4.
4. ^ The History of Economic Downturns in the US -- But Now You
Know.net (http://butnowyouknow.wordpress.com/those-who-fail-tolearn-
from-history/history-of-economic-downturns-in-the-us/)
5. ^ * Bruner, Robert F.; Carr, Sean D. (2007), The Panic of 1907:
Lessons Learned from the Market's Perfect Storm, Hoboken, New
Jersey: John Wiley & Sons, ISBN 978-0-470-15263-8
6. ^ Gold Standards and the Real Bills Doctrine in US Monetary Policy,
Richard H Timberlake, published in Econ Journal Watch, August
2005 --
http://www.econjournalwatch.org/pdf/TimberlakeIntellectualTyrannyAugust2005.pdf
7. ^ Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar
publishing, 2003, ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 11
8. ^ Ben Bernanke, "Non-monetary effects of the financial crisis in the
propagation of the Great Depression", (1983) American Economic
Review . Am 73#3 257–76.
9. ^ Friedman 2007, p.15.
10. ^ (Samuelson 1948, p. 353)
11. ^ Samuelson, Friedman, and monetary policy
(http://krugman.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/12/14/samuelson-friedmanand-
monetary-policy/), Paul Krugman, New York Times Blog,
December 14, 2009
12. ^ Murray Rothbard, America's Great Depression (Ludwig von Mises
Institute, 2000), pp. 159-163.
13. ^ Rothbard, America's Great Depression, pp. 19-21"
14. ^ Rothbard, A History of Money and Banking in the United States,
pp.293-294.
15. ^ White, Clash of Economic Ideas, p. 94. See alsoWhite, Lawrence
(2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?”.
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751–768.
doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x (http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%
2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
16. ^ F. A. Hayek, interviewed by Diego Pizano July, 1979 published in:
Diego Pizano, Conversations with Great Economists: Friedrich A.
Hayek, John Hicks, Nicholas Kaldor, Leonid V. Kantorovich, Joan
Robinson, Paul A.Samuelson, Jan Tinbergen (Jorge Pinto Books,
2009).
17. ^ http://www.marxists.org/archive/corey/1934/decline/index.html
18. ^ [1]
(http://www.johnmauldin.com/images/uploads/pdf/mwo071811.pdf)
Several graphs of total debt to GDP can be found on the Internet.
19. ^ a b c d e f g Jerome, Harry (1934). Mechanization in Industry,
National Bureau of Economic Research
20. ^ Hansen, Alvin (1939). “Economic Progress and Declining
Population Growth”. American Economic Review' 29 (March)
21. ^ a b c Fisher, Irving (October 1933). “The Debt-Deflation Theory of
Great Depressions”. Econometrica (The Econometric Society) 1 (4):
337–357. doi:10.2307/1907327 (http://dx.doi.org/10.2307%
2F1907327). JSTOR 1907327 (http://www.jstor.org/stable/1907327).
22. ^ Fortune, Peter (Sept-Oct, 2000). “Margin Requirements, Margin
Loans, and Margin Rates: Practice and Principles - analysis of history
of margin credit regulations - Statistical Data
Included” (http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m3937/is_2000_Sept-
Oct/ai_80855422/pg_3/?tag=content;col1). New England Economic
Review.
23. ^ a b “Bank Failures
(http://www.livinghistoryfarm.org/farminginthe30s/money_08.html)”.
Living History Farm. 2008年5月22日閲覧。
24. ^ "Friedman and Schwartz, Monetary History of the United States",
352
25. ^ Bernanke, Ben S (June 1983). “Non-Monetary Effects of the
Financial Crisis in the Propagation of the Great Depression”. The
American Economic Review (The American Economic Association)
73 (3): 257–276. JSTOR 1808111
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/1808111).
26. ^ Mishkin, Fredric (December 1978). “The Household Balance and
the Great Depression”. Journal of Economic History 38 (04): 918–37.
doi:10.1017/S0022050700087167 (http://dx.doi.org/10.1017%
2FS0022050700087167).
27. ^ a b Bell, Spurgeon (1940). Productivity, Wages and National
Income , The Institute of Economics of the Brookings Institution
28. ^ [|Yergin, Daniel
(https://www.cera.com/aspx/cda/public1/about/expertise/personPopup.aspx?
iAuthorPK=112)] (1992). The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money $
Power.
29. ^ a b Beaudreau, Bernard C. (1996). Mass Production, the Stock
Market Crash and the Great Depression. New York, Lincoln,
Shanghi: Authors Choice Press.
30. ^ “Hours of Work in U.S. History
(http://eh.net/encyclopedia/article/whaples.work.hours.us)” (2010年).
2012年8月28日閲覧。
31. ^ Whaples, Robert (1991, June). The Shortening of the American
Work Week: An Economic and Historical Analysis of Its Context,
Causes, and Consequences, The Journal of Economic History, Vol.
51, No. 2; pp. 454-457
32. ^ “Technological Change and Economic Growth the Interwar Years
and the 1990s (http://www.econ.yale.edu/seminars/echist/eh04/field-
041006.pdf)” (2004年). 2012年8月28日閲覧。
33. ^ Hubbert, M. King (1940).
http://www.scribd.com/doc/22289589/Man-Hours-and-Distribution-
M-King-Hubbert Man Hours and Distribution , Derived from Man
Hours: A Declining Quantity, Technocracy, Series A, No. 8, August
1936 (http://www.)
34. ^ Jerome, Harry (1934). Mechanization in Industry, National Bureau
of Economic Research<For the several industries studied industry
expansion offset most of the productivity gains that would otherwise
resulted in many more job losses than actually occurred. To prevent
rising unemployment the laid off workers would have to have
changed industries, but it was noted that even if workers were
successful at such a change the time typically took 18 months or
more. The employment statistics for the 1930 census reflect
conditions after the start of the depression so the actual employment
situation prior to the depression is unknown.>
35. ^ Stiglitz, Joseph (2011), “The Book of
Jobs” (http://www.vanityfair.com/politics/2012/01/stiglitzdepression-
201201), Vanity Fair 23/12/2011閲覧。
36. ^ Ayres, R. U.; Ayres, L. W.; Warr, B. (2002). Exergy, Power and
Work in the U. S. Economy 1900-1998, Insead’s Center For the
Management of Environmental Resources, 2002/52/EPS/CMER
(http://terra2000.free.fr/downloads/expowork.pdf)<Fig. 4 in
Appendix>From one-sixth to one-quarter of all land had been used to
grow animal feed.
37. ^ General Motors and the Decline of Streetcars
(http://debunkportland.com/printables/TQOrigin.pdf)
38. ^ David M. Kennedy, 'Freedom From Fear, The American People in
Depression and War 1929 - 1945, Oxford University Press, 1999,
ISBN 0-19-503834-7, p. 122, 123
39. ^ Dorfman,1959
40. ^ Allgoewer, Elisabeth (May 2002). “Underconsumption theories and
Keynesian economics. Interpretations of the Great
Depression” (http://www.vwa.unisg.ch/RePEc/usg/dp2002/dp0214allgoewer_ganz.pdf).
Discussion paper no. 2002-14.
41. ^ Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA
1890–1954, Hodder Education, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p.
108
42. ^ Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA
1890–1954, Hodder Education, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p.
108
43. ^ The Road to Plenty (1928)
44. ^ Eichengreen 1992, p.xi
45. ^ Bernanke 2002, p.80
46. ^ Gold Standards and the Real Bills Doctrine in U.S. Monetary
Policy, RICHARD H. TIMBERLAKE
http://www.econjournalwatch.org/pdf/TimberlakeIntellectualTyrannyAugust2005.pdf
47. ^ Parker, p.49.
48. ^ White, 1990.
49. ^ Protectionism and the Great Depression
(http://krugman.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/11/30/protectionism-andthe-
great-depression/), Paul Krugman, New York Times, November
30, 2009
50. ^ a b The protectionist temptation: Lessons from the Great Depression
for today (http://voxeu.org/index.php?q=node/3280), VOX, Barry
Eichengreen, Douglas Irwin, 17 March 2009
51. ^ Hansen, Alvin (1939). Economic Progress and Declining
Population Growth. ISBN 978-1162557823<Originally printed in a
journal. Reprinted 2004, 2010>
52. ^ a b Barber, Clarence L. "On the Origins of the Great Depression",
Southern Economic Journal, January, 1978, 44(3), pp. 432-456.
53. ^ Barber, Clarence L. "On the Origins of the Great Depression",
Southern Economic Journal, January 1978, 44(3), pp. 432-456. See
also Bolch, B. W. and J. D. Pilgrim, "A Reappraisal of Some Factors
Associated with Fluctuations in the United States in the Interwar
Period." Southern Economic Journal, January 1973, pp. 327-44.
54. ^ Longman, Philip (2004). The Empty Cradle: How Falling
Birthrates Threaten World Prosperity And What to Do About It.
p. 87. ISBN 0-465-05050-6.
55. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 1
56. ^ White, Lawrence (2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the
Great Depression?”. Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751
–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x
(http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
57. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 1
58. ^ Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar
publishing, 2003, ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 9
59. ^ Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar
publishing, 2003, ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 9
60. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 1
61. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 33
62. ^ White, Lawrence (2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the
Great Depression?”. Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751
–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x
(http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
63. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 1
64. ^ White, Lawrence (2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the
Great Depression?”. Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751
–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x
(http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
65. ^ Lawrence White, The Clash of Economic Ideas: The Great Policy
Debates and Experiments of the 20th Century (Cambridge University
Press), p. 94.
66. ^ White, Clash of Economic Ideas, p. 94. See alsoWhite, Lawrence
(2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?”.
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751–768.
doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x (http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%
2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
67. ^ F. A. Hayek, interviewed by Diego Pizano July, 1979 published in:
Diego Pizano, Conversations with Great Economists: Friedrich A.
Hayek, John Hicks, Nicholas Kaldor, Leonid V. Kantorovich, Joan
Robinson, Paul A.Samuelson, Jan Tinbergen (Jorge Pinto Books,
2009).
68. ^ Herbert Hoover, Father of the New Deal, by Steven Horwitz
http://www.cato.org/pubs/bp/bp122.pdf
69. ^ Does ‘Austerity’ Work? by David Weinberger
http://blog.heritage.org/2011/10/27/does-austerity-work/
70. ^ Lessons from Economic Recessions II- The Forgotten Recession of
1920 http://conservativehideout.com/wordpress/2011/07/05/lessonsfrom-
economic-recessions-ii-the-forgotten-recession-of-1920/
71. ^ The Growth of the Federal Government in the 1920s, Randall G.
Holcombe http://www.cato.org/pubs/journal/cj16n2-2.html
72. ^ Hoover's Attack on Laissez-Faire, by Murray Rothbard
http://mises.org/daily/2902#2
73. ^ The Concise Encyclopedia of Economics: The Great Depression
http://www.econlib.org/library/Enc/GreatDepression.html
74. ^ http://www.cato.org/pubs/bp/bp122.pdf
参考文献
◾ Secular Stagnation and Great Depression, R. L. Norman, Jr. (http://www.secularstagnation.com)
◾ Dorfman, Joseph (1959). Economic Mind in American Civilizationvol 4 and 5 cover the ideas of all American economists of 1918-
1933.
◾ Friedman, Milton and Anna Jacobson Schwartz, A Monetary History of the United States, 1867-1960 (1963)
◾ Keen, Steve 2001. Debunking Economics Pluto Press Australia Limited Sydney, Australia
◾ Meltzer, Allan H. 2003 A History of the Federal Reserve Volume I: 1913-1951 Chicago University Press, Chicago, IL
◾ Rothbard, Murray N. 1963 America's Great Depression D. Van Nostrand Company, Princeton, NJ
◾ Rothbard, Murray N. A History of Money and Banking in the United States: The Colonial Era to World War II (2002)
◾ Samuelson, Paul (1948). Economics.
◾ White, Eugene N. "The Stock Market Boom and Crash of 1929 Revisited" Journal of Economic Perspectives, Vol. 4, No. 2 (Spring,
1990), pp. 67–83; examines different theories
関連文献
世界
◾ Ambrosius, G. and W. Hibbard. A Social and Economic History of Twentieth-Century Europe (1989)
◾ Bordo, Michael, and Anna J. Schwartz, eds. A Retrospective on the Classical Gold Standard, 1821–1931 (1984) (National Bureau of
Economic Research Conference Report)
◾ Bordo, Michael et al. eds. The Gold Standard and Related Regimes: Collected Essays (1999)
◾ Brown, Ian. The Economies of Africa and Asia in the Inter-War Depression (1989)
◾ Davis, Joseph S. The World Between the Wars, 1919-39: An Economist's View (1974)
◾ Eichengreen, Barry. Golden Fetters: The Gold Standard and the Great Depression, 1919–1939 (NBER Series on Long-Term Factors
in Economic Development), 1996, ISBN 0-19-510113-8
◾ Eichengreen, Barry, and Marc Flandreau, eds. The Gold Standard in Theory and History (1997)
◾ Feinstein, Charles H. The European Economy Between the Wars (1997)
◾ Garraty, John A. The Great Depression: An Inquiry into the Causes, Course, and Consequences of the Worldwide Depression of the
Nineteen-Thirties, as Seen by Contemporaries and in Light of History (1986)
◾ Garraty, John A. Unemployment in History (1978)
◾ Garside, William R. Capitalism in Crisis: International Responses to the Great Depression (1993)
◾ Haberler, Gottfried. The World Economy, Money, and the Great Depression 1919-1939 (1976)
◾ Hall, Thomas E. and J. David Ferguson. The Great Depression: An International Disaster of Perverse Economic Policies (1998)
◾ Kaiser, David E. Economic Diplomacy and the Origins of the Second World War: Germany, Britain, France and Eastern Europe,
1930-1939 (1980)
◾ Kindleberger, Charles P. The World in Depression, 1929-1939 (1983);
◾ Tipton, F. and R. Aldrich. An Economic and Social History of Europe, 1890–1939 (1987)
◾ Barber, Clarence Lyle (University of Manitoba) "On the Origins of the Great Depression" (1978)
アメリカ合衆国
◾ Ben S. Bernanke. Essays on the Great Depression (2000)
◾ Bernstein, Michael A. The Great Depression: Delayed Recovery and Economic Change in America, 1929-1939 (1989) focus on lowgrowth
and high-growth industries
◾ Bordo, Michael D., Claudia Goldin, and Eugene N. White, eds. The Defining Moment: The Great Depression and the American
Economy in the Twentieth Century (1998). Advanced economic history.
◾ Chandler, Lester. America's Greatest Depression (1970). economic history overview.
◾ De Long, Bradford. Liquidation Cycles and the Great Depression (1991)
◾ Jensen, Richard J. "The Causes and Cures of Unemployment in the Great Depression," Journal of Interdisciplinary History 19 (1989)
553-83. online at JSTOR in most academic libraries
◾ McElvaine, Robert S. The Great Depression (2nd ed 1993) social history
◾ Mitchell, Broadus. Depression Decade: From New Era through New Deal, 1929-1941 (1964), standard economic history overview.
◾ Parker, Randall E. Reflections on the Great Depression (2002) interviews with 11 leading economists
◾ Salsman, Richard M. “The Cause and Consequences of the Great Depression” in The Intellectual Activist, ISSN 0730-2355. Mr.
Salsman argues that the Great Depression was fundamentally caused by statist government policy.
◾ Singleton, Jeff. The American Dole: Unemployment Relief and the Welfare State in the Great Depression (2000)
(http://www.questia.com/PM.qst?a=o&d=24419587)
◾ Warren, Harris Gaylord. Herbert Hoover and the Great Depression (1959).
連邦準備制度の役割
◾ Chandler, Lester V. American Monetary Policy, 1928-41. (1971).
◾ Epstein, Gerald and Thomas Ferguson. "Monetary Policy, Loan Liquidation and Industrial Conflict: Federal Reserve System Open
Market Operations in 1932." Journal of Economic History 44 (December 1984): 957-84. in JSTOR
◾ Kubik, Paul J., "Federal Reserve Policy during the Great Depression: The Impact of Interwar Attitudes regarding Consumption and
Consumer Credit." Journal of Economic Issues. Vo: 30. Issue: 3. Publication Year: 1996. pp 829+.
◾ Mayhew, Anne. "Ideology and the Great Depression: Monetary History Rewritten." Journal of Economic Issues 17 (June 1983): 353-
60.
◾ Meltzer, Allan H. A History of the Federal Reserve, Volume 1: 1913-1951 (2004) the standard scholarly history
◾ Steindl, Frank G. Monetary Interpretations of the Great Depression. (1995).
◾ Temin, Peter. Did Monetary Forces Cause the Great Depression? (1976).
◾ Wicker, Elmus R. "A Reconsideration of Federal Reserve Policy during the 1920-1921 Depression," Journal of Economic History
(1966) 26: 223-238, in JSTOR
◾ Wicker, Elmus. Federal Reserve Monetary Policy, 1917-33. (1966).
◾ Wells, Donald R. The Federal Reserve System: A History (2004)
◾ Wueschner, Silvano A. Charting Twentieth-Century Monetary Policy: Herbert Hoover and Benjamin Strong, 1917-1927 Greenwood
Press. (1999)
Template:GreatDepr nav
「https://ja.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=世界恐慌の原因&oldid=60902860」から取得
カテゴリ: 翻訳中途 - 2016年2月1920年代世界恐慌経済恐慌金本位制出来事の原因
◾ 最終更新 2016年8月25日 (木) 17:12 （日時は個人設定で未設定ならばUTC）。
◾ テキストはクリエイティブ・コモンズ表示-継承ライセンスの下で利用可能です。追加の条件が適用される場合があります。
詳細は利用規約を参照してください。
USA annual real GDP from 1910 to 1960, with the years of the Great
Depression (1929–39) highlighted
Money supply decreased a lot between Black Tuedsay and the Bank
Holiday in March 1933 when there was massive bank runs across the
United States.
Causes of the Great Depression
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
The causes of the Great Depression in the early 20th century have been extensively discussed
by economists and remain a matter of active debate. They are part of the larger debate about
economic crises.
The specific economic events that took place during the Great Depression have been studied
thoroughly: a deflation in asset and commodity prices, dramatic drops in demand and credit, and
disruption of trade, ultimately resulting in widespread unemployment (over 13 million people
were unemployed by 1932) and hence poverty. However, historians lack consensus in
determining the causal relationship between various events and the government economic policy
in causing or ameliorating the Depression. The initial stock market crash triggered a "panic selloff"
that made the stock market go even lower.
Although a common belief is that the Great Depression was triggered by the 1929 crash of the
stock market, the stock market in 1929 had reached record fundamental valuations in spite of
deteriorating economic conditions such as rising unemployment, overproduction (excess
capacity), underconsumption and high debt. The timing of the crash coincided with news that the
proposed import tariff on manufactured products was losing support in Congress.[1]
Current theories may be broadly classified into two main points of view and several heterodox
points of view.
First, there are demand-driven theories, from Keynesian and institutional economists who argue
that the depression was caused by a widespread loss of confidence that led to underconsumption.
The demand-driven theories argue that the financial crisis following the 1929 crash led to a
sudden and persistent reduction in consumption and investment spending.[2] Once panic and
deflation set in, many people believed they could avoid further losses by keeping clear of the
markets. Holding money therefore became profitable as prices dropped lower and a given amount
of money bought ever more goods, exacerbating the drop in demand.
Second, there are the monetarists, who believe that the Great Depression started as an ordinary
recession, but that significant policy mistakes by monetary authorities (especially the Federal
Reserve) caused a shrinking of the money supply which greatly exacerbated the economic
situation, causing a recession to descend into the Great Depression. Related to this explanation are those who point to debt deflation causing those who borrow to owe
ever more in real terms.
There are also various heterodox theories that reject the explanations of the Keynesians and monetarists. Some new classical macroeconomists have argued that
various labor market policies imposed at the start caused the length and severity of the Great Depression. The Austrian school of economics focuses on the
macroeconomic effects of money supply and how central banking decisions can lead to malinvestment. Marxian economists view the Great Depression, with all other
economic crises, as a symptom of the classism and instability inherent in the capitalist model.
Contents
◾ 1 General theoretical reasoning
◾ 1.1 Mainstream theories
◾ 1.1.1 Keynesian
◾ 1.1.2 Monetarist
◾ 1.1.3 Additional modern nonmonetary explanations
◾ 1.1.3.1 Debt deflation
◾ 1.1.3.2 Expectations hypothesis
◾ 1.2 Heterodox theories
◾ 1.2.1 Austrian School
◾ 1.2.2 Marxian
◾ 2 Specific theories of cause
◾ 2.1 Non-debt deflation
◾ 2.2 Productivity or technology shock
◾ 2.3 Disparities in wealth and income
◾ 2.4 Gold Standard system
◾ 2.5 Financial institution structures
◾ 2.6 Protectionism
◾ 2.7 International Debt Structure
◾ 2.8 Population dynamics
◾ 3 Role of economic policy
◾ 3.1 Calvin Coolidge (1923–29)
◾ 3.2 Leave-it-alone liquidationism (1929–33)
◾ 3.2.1 Overview
◾ 3.2.2 Criticism
◾ 3.3 Herbert Hoover (1929–33)
◾ 3.3.1 Economic policy
◾ 3.3.2 Federal spending
◾ 3.3.3 Tax policy
◾ 3.4 Franklin Delano Roosevelt (1933–45)
◾ 3.4.1 Arguments for key to recovery
◾ 3.4.2 Arguments for prolongation of the Great Depression
◾ 4 See also
◾ 5 Notes
◾ 6 References
The Great Depression in a monetary
view.
◾ 7 Further reading
◾ 7.1 World
◾ 7.2 United States
◾ 7.3 Role of the United States Federal Reserve
General theoretical reasoning
The two classical competing theories of the Great Depression are the Keynesian (demand-driven) and the monetarist explanation. There are also various heterodox
theories that downplay or reject the explanations of the Keynesians and monetarists.
Economists and economic historians are almost evenly split as to whether the traditional monetary explanation that monetary forces were the primary cause of the
Great Depression is right, or the traditional Keynesian explanation that a fall in autonomous spending, particularly investment, is the primary explanation for the
onset of the Great Depression.[3] Today the controversy is of lesser importance since there is mainstream support for the debt deflation theory and the expectations
hypothesis that building on the monetary explanation of Milton Friedman and Anna Schwartz add non-monetary explanations.
There is consensus that the Federal Reserve System should have cut short the process of monetary deflation and banking collapse. If the FED had done that the
economic downturn would have been far less severe and much shorter.[4]
Mainstream theories
Keynesian
In his book The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money (1936), British economist John Maynard Keynes introduced concepts that were intended to help
explain the Great Depression. He argued that there are reasons why the self-correcting mechanisms that many economists claimed should work during a downturn
might not work.
One argument for a non-interventionist policy during a recession was that if consumption fell due to savings, the savings would cause the rate of interest to fall.
According to the classical economists, lower interest rates would lead to increased investment spending and demand would remain constant. However, Keynes argues
that there are good reasons why investment does not necessarily increase in response to a fall in the interest rate. Businesses make investments based on expectations
of profit. Therefore, if a fall in consumption appears to be long-term, businesses analyzing trends will lower expectations of future sales. Therefore, the last thing they
are interested in doing is investing in increasing future production, even if lower interest rates make capital inexpensive. In that case, the economy can be thrown into
a general slump due to a decline in consumption.[5] According to Keynes, this self-reinforcing dynamic is what occurred to an extreme degree during the Depression,
where bankruptcies were common and investment, which requires a degree of optimism, was very unlikely to occur. This view is often characterized by economists
as being in opposition to Say's Law.
The idea that reduced capital investment was a cause of the depression is a central theme in Secular stagnation theory.
Keynes argued that if the national government spent more money to recover the money spent by consumers and business firms, unemployment rates would fall. The
solution was for the Federal Reserve System to “create new money for the national government to borrow and spend” and to cut taxes rather than raising them, in
order for consumers to spend more, and other beneficial factors.[6] Hoover chose to do the opposite of what Keynes thought to be the solution and allowed the federal
government to raise taxes exceedingly to reduce the budget shortage brought upon by the depression. Keynes proclaimed that more workers could be employed by
decreasing interest rates, encouraging firms to borrow more money and make more products. Employment would prevent the government from having to spend any
more money by increasing the amount at which consumers would spend. Keynes’ theory was then confirmed by the length of the Great Depression within the United
States and the constant unemployment rate. Employment rates began to rise in preparation for World War II by increasing government spending. “In light of these
developments, the Keynesian explanation of the Great Depression was increasingly accepted by economists, historians, and politicians”.[6]
Monetarist
In their 1963 book A Monetary History of the United States, 1867–1960, Milton Friedman and Anna Schwartz laid out their
case for a different explanation of the Great Depression. Essentially, the Great Depression, in their view, was caused by the
fall of the money supply. Friedman and Schwartz write: "From the cyclical peak in August 1929 to a cyclical trough in March
1933, the stock of money fell by over a third." The result was what Friedman calls the "Great Contraction" — a period of
falling income, prices, and employment caused by the choking effects of a restricted money supply. Friedman and Schwartz
argue that people wanted to hold more money than the Federal Reserve was supplying. As a result, people hoarded money by
consuming less. This caused a contraction in employment and production since prices were not flexible enough to
immediately fall. The Fed's failure was in not realizing what was happening and not taking corrective action.[7]
After the Depression, the primary explanations of it tended to ignore the importance of the money supply. However, in the
monetarist view, the Depression was “in fact a tragic testimonial to the importance of monetary forces.”[8] In their view, the
failure of the Federal Reserve to deal with the Depression was not a sign that monetary policy was impotent, but that the
Federal Reserve implemented the wrong policies. They did not claim the Fed caused the depression, only that it failed to use
policies that might have stopped a recession from turning into a depression.
The U.S. economy during this period went through a number of cycles of boom and bust. The depressions often seemed to be set off by bank panics, the most
significant occurring in 1873, 1893, 1901, 1907, and 1920.[9] Before the 1913 establishment of the Federal Reserve, the banking system had dealt with these crises in
the U.S. (such as in the Panic of 1907) by suspending the convertibility of deposits into currency. Starting in 1893, there were growing efforts by financial institutions
and business men to intervene during these crises, providing liquidity to banks that were suffering runs. During the banking panic of 1907, an ad-hoc coalition
assembled by J. P. Morgan successfully intervened in this way, thereby cutting off the panic, which was likely the reason why the depression that would normally
have followed a banking panic did not happen this time. A call by some for a government version of this solution resulted in the establishment of the Federal Reserve.
[10]
But in 1928–32, the Federal Reserve did not act to provide liquidity to banks suffering runs. In fact, its policy contributed to the banking crisis by permitting a sudden
contraction of the money supply. During the Roaring Twenties, the central bank had set as its primary goal "price stability", in part because the governor of the New
York Federal Reserve, Benjamin Strong, was a disciple of Irving Fisher, a tremendously popular economist who popularized stable prices as a monetary goal. It had
kept the number of dollars at such an amount that prices of goods in society appeared stable. In 1928, Strong died, and with his death this policy ended, to be replaced
with a real bills doctrine requiring that all currency or securities have material goods backing them. This policy permitted the US money supply to fall by over a third
from 1929 to 1933.[11]
Crowd at New York's American Union
Bank during a bank run early in the Great
Depression.
Crowd gathering on Wall Street after the
1929 crash.
When this money shortage caused runs on banks, the Fed maintained its true bills policy, refusing to lend money to the banks in the way that had cut short the 1907
panic, instead allowing each to suffer a catastrophic run and fail entirely. This policy resulted in a series of bank failures in which one-third of all banks vanished.[12]
According to Ben Bernanke, the subsequent credit crunches led to waves of bankruptcies.[13] Friedman said that if a policy similar to 1907 had been followed during
the banking panic at the end of 1930, perhaps this would have stopped the vicious circle of the forced liquidation of assets at depressed prices. Consequently, the
banking panics of 1931, 1932, and 1933 might not have happened, just as suspension of convertibility in 1893 and 1907 had quickly ended the liquidity crises at the
time.”[14]
Monetarist explanations had been rejected in Samuelson's work Economics, writing "Today few economists regard Federal Reserve monetary policy as a panacea for
controlling the business cycle. Purely monetary factors are considered to be as much symptoms as causes, albeit symptoms with aggravating effects that should not be
completely neglected."[15] According to Keynesian economist Paul Krugman, the work of Friedman and Schwartz became dominant among mainstream economists
by the 1980s but should be reconsidered in light of Japan's Lost Decade of the 1990s.[16] The role of monetary policy in financial crises is in active debate regarding
the 2007–12 global financial crisis; see Causes of the 2007–12 global financial crisis.
Additional modern nonmonetary explanations
The monetary explanation has two weaknesses. First it is not able to explain why the demand for money was falling more rapidly than the supply during the initial
downturn in 1930-31.[17] Second it is not able to explain why in March 1933 a recovery took place although short term interest rates remained close to zero and the
Money supply was still falling. These questions are addressed by modern explanations that build on the monetary explanation of Milton Friedman and Anna
Schwartz but add non-monetary explanations.
Debt deflation
Total debt to GDP levels in the U.S. reached a high of just under 300% by the time of the Depression. This level of debt was
not exceeded again until near the end of the 20th century.[18]
Jerome (1934) gives an unattributed quote about finance conditions that allowed the great industrial expansion of the post
WW I period:
Probably never before in this country had such a volume of funds been available at such low rates for such a long
period.[19]
Furthermore, Jerome says that the volume of new capital issues increased at a 7.7% compounded annual rate from 1922
–29 at a time when the Standard Statistics Co.'s index of 60 high grade bonds yielded from 4.98% in 1923 to 4.47% in
1927.
There was also a real estate and housing bubble in the 1920s, especially in Florida, which burst in 1925. Alvin Hansen
stated that housing construction during the 1920s decade exceeded population growth by 25%.[20] See also:Florida land
boom of the 1920s
Irving Fisher argued that the predominant factor leading to the Great Depression was over-indebtedness and deflation.
Fisher tied loose credit to over-indebtedness, which fueled speculation and asset bubbles.[21] He then outlined nine factors
interacting with one another under conditions of debt and deflation to create the mechanics of boom to bust. The chain of
events proceeded as follows:
1. Debt liquidation and distress selling
2. Contraction of the money supply as bank loans are paid off
3. A fall in the level of asset prices
4. A still greater fall in the net worths of business, precipitating bankruptcies
5. A fall in profits
6. A reduction in output, in trade and in employment.
7. Pessimism and loss of confidence
8. Hoarding of money
9. A fall in nominal interest rates and a rise in deflation adjusted interest rates.[21]
During the Crash of 1929 preceding the Great Depression, margin requirements were only 10%.[22] Brokerage firms, in
other words, would lend $90 for every $10 an investor had deposited. When the market fell, brokers called in these loans,
which could not be paid back. Banks began to fail as debtors defaulted on debt and depositors attempted to withdraw
their deposits en masse, triggering multiple bank runs. Government guarantees and Federal Reserve banking regulations
to prevent such panics were ineffective or not used. Bank failures led to the loss of billions of dollars in assets.[23]
Outstanding debts became heavier, because prices and incomes fell by 20–50% but the debts remained at the same dollar
amount. After the panic of 1929, and during the first 10 months of 1930, 744 US banks failed. (In all, 9,000 banks failed
during the 1930s). By April 1933, around $7 billion in deposits had been frozen in failed banks or those left unlicensed
after the March Bank Holiday.[24]
Bank failures snowballed as desperate bankers called in loans, which the borrowers did not have time or money to repay.
With future profits looking poor, capital investment and construction slowed or completely ceased. In the face of bad
loans and worsening future prospects, the surviving banks became even more conservative in their lending.[23] Banks
built up their capital reserves and made fewer loans, which intensified deflationary pressures. A vicious cycle developed
and the downward spiral accelerated.
The liquidation of debt could not keep up with the fall of prices it caused. The mass effect of the stampede to liquidate increased the value of each dollar owed,
relative to the value of declining asset holdings. The very effort of individuals to lessen their burden of debt effectively increased it. Paradoxically, the more the
debtors paid, the more they owed.[21] This self-aggravating process turned a 1930 recession into a 1933 great depression.
Fisher's debt-deflation theory initially lacked mainstream influence because of the counter-argument that debt-deflation represented no more than a redistribution
from one group (debtors) to another (creditors). Pure re-distributions should have no significant macroeconomic effects.
Building on both the monetary hypothesis of Milton Friedman and Anna Schwartz as well as the debt deflation hypothesis of Irving Fisher, Ben Bernanke developed
an alternative way in which the financial crisis affected output. He builds on Fisher's argument that dramatic declines in the price level and nominal incomes lead to
increasing real debt burdens which in turn leads to debtor insolvency and consequently leads to lowered aggregate demand, a further decline in the price level then
results in a debt deflationary spiral. According to Bernanke, a small decline in the price level simply reallocates wealth from debtors to creditors without doing
damage to the economy. But when the deflation is severe falling asset prices along with debtor bankruptcies lead to a decline in the nominal value of assets on bank
balance sheets. Banks will react by tightening their credit conditions, that in turn leads to a credit crunch which does serious harm to the economy. A credit crunch
lowers investment and consumption and results in declining aggregate demand which additionally contributes to the deflationary spiral.[25][26][27]
Economist Steve Keen revived the Debt-Reset Theory after he accurately predicted the 2008 recession based on his analysis of the Great Depression, and recently
advised Congress to engage in debt-forgiveness or direct payments to citizens in order to avoid future financial events.[28] Some people support the Debt-Reset
Theory.[29][30][31]
Expectations hypothesis
Expectations have been a central element of macroeconomic models since the economic mainstream accepted the new neoclassical synthesis. While not rejecting that
it was inadequate demand that sustained the depression, according to Peter Temin, Barry Wigmore, Gauti B. Eggertsson and Christina Romer the key to recovery and
the end of the Great Depression was the successful management of public expectations. This thesis is based on the observation that after years of deflation and a very
severe recession, important economic indicators turned positive in March 1933, just as Franklin D. Roosevelt took office. Consumer prices turned from deflation to a
mild inflation, industrial production bottomed out in March 1933, investment doubled in 1933 with a turnaround in March 1933. There were no monetary forces to
explain that turnaround. Money supply was still falling and short term interest rates remained close to zero. Before March 1933, people expected a further deflation
and recession so that even interest rates at zero did not stimulate investment. But when Roosevelt announced major regime changes people began to expect inflation
and an economic expansion. With those expectations, interest rates at zero began to stimulate investment as planned. Roosevelt's fiscal and monetary policy regime
change helped to make his policy objectives credible. The expectation of higher future income and higher future inflation stimulated demand and investments. The
analysis suggests that the elimination of the policy dogmas of the gold standard, a balanced budget in times of crises and small government led endogenously to a
large shift in expectation that accounts for about 70–80 percent of the recovery of output and prices from 1933 to 1937. If the regime change had not happened and
the Hoover policy had continued, the economy would have continued its free fall in 1933, and output would have been 30 percent lower in 1937 than in 1933.
[32][33][34]
The recession of 1937–38, which slowed down economic recovery from the great depression, is explained by fears of the population that the moderate tightening of
the monetary and fiscal policy in 1937 would be first steps to a restoration of the pre March 1933 policy regime.[35]
Heterodox theories
Austrian School
Austrian economists argue that the Great Depression was the inevitable outcome of the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve during the 1920s. In their opinion,
the central bank's policy was an "easy credit policy" which led to an unsustainable credit-driven boom. In the Austrian view, the inflation of the money supply during
this period led to an unsustainable boom in both asset prices (stocks and bonds) and capital goods. By the time the Federal Reserve belatedly tightened monetary
policy in 1928, it was too late to avoid a significant economic contraction.[36] Austrians argue that government intervention after the crash of 1929 delayed the
market’s adjustment and made the road to complete recovery more difficult.[37][38]
Acceptance of the Austrian explanation of what primarily caused the Great Depression is compatible with either acceptance or denial of the Monetarist explanation.
Austrian economist Murray Rothbard, who wrote America's Great Depression (1963), rejected the Monetarist explanation. He criticized Milton Friedman's assertion
that the central bank failed to sufficiently increase the supply of money, claiming instead that the Federal Reserve did pursue an inflationary policy when, in 1932, it
purchased $1.1 billion of government securities, which raised its total holding to $1.8 billion. Rothbard says that despite the central bank's policies, "total bank
reserves only rose by $212 million, while the total money supply fell by $3 billion". The reason for this, he argues, is that the American populace lost faith in the
banking system and began hoarding more cash, a factor very much beyond the control of the Central Bank. The potential for a run on the banks caused local bankers
to be more conservative in lending out their reserves, which, according to Rothbard's argument, was the cause of the Federal Reserve's inability to inflate.[39]
Friedrich Hayek had criticised the FED and the Bank of England in the 1930s for not taking a more contractionary stance.[40] However, in 1975, Hayek admitted that
he made a mistake in the 1930s in not opposing the Central Bank's deflationary policy and stated the reason why he had been ambivalent: "At that time I believed that
a process of deflation of some short duration might break the rigidity of wages which I thought was incompatible with a functioning economy.[41] In 1978, he made it
clear that he agreed with the point of view of the Monetarists, saying, "I agree with Milton Friedman that once the Crash had occurred, the Federal Reserve System
pursued a silly deflationary policy", and that he was as opposed to deflation as he was to inflation.[42] Concordantly, economist Lawrence White argues that the
business cycle theory of Hayek is inconsistent with a monetary policy which permits a severe contraction of the money supply.
Hans Sennholz argued that most boom and busts that plagued the American economy in 1819-20, 1839–43, 1857–60, 1873–78, 1893–97, and 1920–21, were
generated by government creating a boom through easy money and credit, which was soon followed by the inevitable bust. The spectacular crash of 1929 followed
five years of reckless credit expansion by the Federal Reserve System under the Coolidge Administration. The passing of the Sixteenth Amendment, the passage of
The Federal Reserve Act, rising government deficits, the passage of the Hawley-Smoot Tariff Act, and the Revenue Act of 1932, exacerbated the crisis, prolonging it.
[43]
Marxian
Marxists generally argue that the Great Depression was the result of the inherent instability of the capitalist model.[44]
Specific theories of cause
Non-debt deflation
In addition to the debt deflation there was a component of productivity deflation that had been occurring since The Great Deflation of the last quarter of the 19th
century.[45] There may have also been a continuation of the correction to the sharp inflation caused by WW I.
Oil prices reached their all-time low in the early 1930s as production began from the East Texas Oil Field, the largest field ever found in the lower 48 states. With the
oil market oversupplied prices locally fell to below ten cents per barrel.[46]
Productivity or technology shock
In the first three decades of the 20th century productivity and economic output surged due in part to electrification, mass production and the increasing motorization
of transportation and farm machinery. Electrification and mass production techniques such as Fordism permanently lowered the demand for labor relative to
economic output.[1][47] By the late 1920s the resultant rapid growth in productivity and investment in manufacturing meant there was a considerable excess production
capacity.[48]
Sometime after the peak of the business cycle in 1923, more workers were displaced by productivity improvements than growth in the employment market could
meet, causing unemployment to slowly rise after 1925.[49] [1] Also, the work week fell slightly in the decade prior to the depression.[50][51][52] Wages did not keep up
with productivity growth, which led to the problem of underconsumption.[1]
Henry Ford and Edward A. Filene were among prominent businessmen who were concerned with overproduction and underconsumption. Ford doubled wages of his
workers in 1914. The over-production problem was also discussed in Congress, with Senator Reed Smoot proposing an import tariff, which became the Smoot
–Hawley Tariff Act. The Smoot–Hawley Tariff was enacted in June, 1930. The tariff was misguided because the U.S. had been running a trade account surplus
during the 1920s.[1]
Another effect of rapid technological change was that after 1910 the rate of capital investment slowed, primarily due to reduced investment in business structures.[47]
The depression led to additional large numbers of plant closings.[19]
It cannot be emphasized too strongly that the [productivity, output and employment] trends we are describing are long-time trends and were thoroughly
evident prior to 1929. These trends are in nowise the result of the present depression, nor are they the result of the World War. On the contrary, the
present depression is a collapse resulting from these long-term trends. — M. King Hubbert[53]
In the book Mechanization in Industry, whose publication was sponsored by the National Bureau of Economic Research, Jerome (1934) noted that whether
mechanization tends to increase output or displace labor depends on the elasticity of demand for the product.[19] In addition, reduced costs of production were not
always passed on to consumers. It was further noted that agriculture was adversely affected by the reduced need for animal feed as horses and mules were displaced
by inanimate sources of power following WW I. As a related point, Jerome also notes that the term "technological unemployment" was being used to describe the
labor situation during the depression.[19]
Some portion of the increased unemployment which characterized the post-War years in the United States may be attributed to the mechanization of
industries producing commodities of inelastic demand. — Fredrick C. Wells, 1934[19]
The dramatic rise in productivity of major industries in the U. S. and the effects of productivity on output, wages and the work week are discussed by a Brookings
Institution sponsored book.[45]
Corporations decided to lay off workers and reduced the amount of raw materials they purchased to manufacture their products. This decision was made to cut the
production of goods because of the amount of products that were not being sold.[6]
Joseph Stiglitz and Bruce Greenwald suggested that it was a productivity-shock in agriculture, through fertilizers, mechanization and improved seed, that caused the
drop in agricultural product prices. Farmers were forced off the land, further adding to the excess labor supply.[54]
The prices of agricultural products began to decline after WW I and eventually many farmers were forced out of business, causing the failure of hundreds of small
rural banks. Agricultural productivity resulting from tractors, fertilizers and hybrid corn was only part of the problem; the other problem was the change over from
horses and mules to internal combustion transportation. The horse and mule population began declining after WW 1, freeing up enormous quantities of land
previously used for animal feed.[19][55][56]
The rise of the internal combustion engine and increasing numbers of motorcars and buses also halted the growth of electric street railways.[57]
The years 1929 to 1941 had the highest total factor productivity growth in the history of the U. S., largely due to the productivity increases in public utilities,
transportation and trade.[58]
Disparities in wealth and income
Economists such as Waddill Catchings, William Trufant Foster, Rexford Tugwell, Adolph Berle (and later John Kenneth Galbraith), popularized a theory that had
some influence on Franklin D. Roosevelt.[59] This theory held that the economy produced more goods than consumers could purchase, because the consumers did not
have enough income.[60][61][62] According to this view, in the 1920s wages had increased at a lower rate than productivity growth, which had been high. Most of the
benefit of the increased productivity went into profits, which went into the stock market bubble rather than into consumer purchases. Thus workers did not have
enough income to absorb the large amount of capacity that had been added.[1]
According to this view, the root cause of the Great Depression was a global overinvestment while the level of wages and earnings from independent businesses fell
short of creating enough purchasing power. It was argued that government should intervene by an increased taxation of the rich to help make income more equal.
With the increased revenue the government could create public works to increase employment and ‘kick start’ the economy. In the USA the economic policies had
been quite the opposite until 1932. The Revenue Act of 1932 and public works programmes introduced in Hoover's last year as president and taken up by Roosevelt,
created some redistribution of purchasing power.[62][63]
The stock market crash made it evident that banking systems Americans were relying on were not dependable. Americans looked towards insubstantial banking units
for their own liquidity supply. As the economy began to fail, these banks were no longer able to support those who depended on their assets – they did not hold as
much power as the larger banks. During the depression, “three waves of bank failures shook the economy.”[64] The first wave came just when the economy was
heading in the direction of recovery at the end of 1930 and the beginning of 1931. The second wave of bank failures occurred “after the Federal Reserve System
raised the rediscount rate to staunch an outflow of gold”[64] around the end of 1931. The last wave, which began in the middle of 1932, was the worst and most
devastating, continuing “almost to the point of a total breakdown of the banking system in the winter of 1932–1933.”[64] The reserve banks led the United States into
an even deeper depression between 1931 and 1933, due to their failure to appreciate and put to use the powers they withheld – capable of creating money – as well as
the “inappropriate monetary policies pursued by them during these years”.[64]
Gold Standard system
New York stock market index
According to the gold standard theory of the Depression, the Depression was largely caused by the decision of most western nations after World War I to return to the
gold standard at the pre-war gold price. Monetary policy, according to this view, was thereby put into a deflationary setting that would over the next decade slowly
grind away at the health of many European economies.
This post-war policy was preceded by an inflationary policy during World War I, when many European nations abandoned the gold standard, forced by the enormous
costs of the war. This resulted in inflation because the supply of new money that was created was spent on war, not on investments in productivity to increase demand
that would have neutralized inflation. The view is that the quantity of new money introduced largely determines the inflation rate, and therefore, the cure to inflation
is to reduce the amount of new currency created for purposes that are destructive or wasteful, and do not lead to economic growth.
After the war, when America and the nations of Europe went back on the gold standard, most nations decided to return to the gold standard at the pre-war price.
When Britain, for example, passed the Gold Standard Act of 1925, thereby returning Britain to the gold standard, the critical decision was made to set the new price
of the Pound Sterling at parity with the pre-war price even though the pound was then trading on the foreign exchange market at a much lower price. At the time, this
action was criticized by John Maynard Keynes and others, who argued that in so doing, they were forcing a revaluation of wages without any tendency to
equilibrium. Keynes' criticism of Winston Churchill's form of the return to the gold standard implicitly compared it to the consequences of the Treaty of Versailles.
One of the reasons for setting the currencies at parity with the pre-war price was the prevailing opinion at that time that deflation was not a danger, while inflation,
particularly the inflation in the Weimar Republic, was an unbearable danger. Another reason was that those who had loaned in nominal amounts hoped to recover the
same value in gold that they had lent. Because of the reparations that Germany had to pay France, Germany began a credit-fueled period of growth in order to export
and sell enough goods abroad to gain gold to pay the reparations. The U.S., as the world's gold sink, loaned money to Germany to industrialize, which was then the
basis for Germany paying back France, and France paying back loans to the U.K. and the U.S. This arrangement was codified in the Dawes Plan.
In some cases, deflation can be hard on sectors of the economy such as agriculture, if they are deeply in debt at high interest rates and are unable to refinance, or that
are dependent upon loans to finance capital goods when low interest rates are not available. Deflation erodes the price of commodities while increasing the real
liability of debt. Deflation is beneficial to those with assets in cash, and to those who wish to invest or purchase assets or loan money.
More recent research, by economists such as Peter Temin, Ben Bernanke and Barry Eichengreen, has focused on the constraints policy makers were under at the time
of the Depression. In this view, the constraints of the inter-war gold standard magnified the initial economic shock and were a significant obstacle to any actions that
would ameliorate the growing Depression. According to them, the initial destabilizing shock may have originated with the Wall Street Crash of 1929 in the U.S., but
it was the gold standard system that transmitted the problem to the rest of the world.[65]
According to their conclusions, during a time of crisis, policy makers may have wanted to loosen monetary and fiscal policy, but such action would threaten the
countries’ ability to maintain their obligation to exchange gold at its contractual rate. The gold standard required countries to maintain high interest rates to attract
international investors who bought foreign assets with gold. Therefore, governments had their hands tied as the economies collapsed, unless they abandoned their
currency’s link to gold. Fixing the exchange rate of all countries on the gold standard ensured that the market for foreign exchange can only equilibrate through
interest rates. As the Depression worsened, many countries started to abandon the gold standard, and those that abandoned it earlier suffered less from deflation and
tended to recover more quickly.[66]
Richard Timberlake, economist of the free banking school and protégé of Milton Friedman, specifically addressed this stance in his paper Gold Standards and the
Real Bills Doctrine in U.S. Monetary Policy, wherein he argued that the Federal Reserve actually had plenty of lee-way under the gold standard, as had been
demonstrated by the price stability policy of New York Fed governor Benjamin Strong, between 1923 and 1928. But when Strong died in late 1928, the faction that
took over dominance of the Fed advocated a real bills doctrine, where all money had to be represented by physical goods. This policy, forcing a 30% deflation of the
dollar that inevitably damaged the US economy, is stated by Timberlake as being arbitrary and avoidable, the existing gold standard having been capable of
continuing without it:
This shift in control was decisive. In accordance with the precedent Strong had set in promoting a stable price level policy without heed to any golden fetters,
real bills proponents could proceed equally unconstrained in implementing their policy ideal. System policy in 1928–29 consequently shifted from price level
stabilization to passive real bills. “The” gold standard remained where it had been—nothing but formal window dressing waiting for an opportune time to
reappear.[67]
Financial institution structures
Economic historians (especially Friedman and Schwartz) emphasize the importance of numerous
bank failures. The failures were mostly in rural America. Structural weaknesses in the rural
economy made local banks highly vulnerable. Farmers, already deeply in debt, saw farm prices
plummet in the late 1920s and their implicit real interest rates on loans skyrocket.
Their land was already over-mortgaged (as a result of the 1919 bubble in land prices), and crop
prices were too low to allow them to pay off what they owed. Small banks, especially those tied to
the agricultural economy, were in constant crisis in the 1920s with their customers defaulting on
loans because of the sudden rise in real interest rates; there was a steady stream of failures among
these smaller banks throughout the decade.
The city banks also suffered from structural weaknesses that made them vulnerable to a shock.
Some of the nation's largest banks were failing to maintain adequate reserves and were investing
heavily in the stock market or making risky loans. Loans to Germany and Latin America by New
York City banks were especially risky. In other words, the banking system was not well prepared
to absorb the shock of a major recession.
Economists have argued that a liquidity trap might have contributed to bank failures.
Economists and historians debate how much responsibility to assign the Wall Street Crash of 1929. The timing was right; the magnitude of the shock to expectations
of future prosperity was high. Most analysts believe the market in 1928–29 was a "bubble" with prices far higher than justified by fundamentals. Economists agree
that somehow it shared some blame, but how much no one has estimated. Milton Friedman concluded, "I don't doubt for a moment that the collapse of the stock
market in 1929 played a role in the initial recession".[68]
The idea of owning government bonds initially became ideal to investors when Liberty Loan drives encouraged this possession in America during World War I. This
strive for dominion persisted into the 1920s. After World War I, the United States became the world’s creditor and was depended upon by many foreign nations.
“Governments from around the globe looked to Wall Street for loans”.[69] Investors then started to depend on these loans for further investments. Chief counsel of the
Senate Bank Committee, Ferdinand Pecora, disclosed that National City executives were also dependent on loans from a special bank fund as a safety net for their
stock losses while American banker, Albert Wiggin, “made millions selling short his own bank shares”.[69]
Economist David Hume stated that the economy became imbalanced as the recession spread on an international scale. The cost of goods remained too high for too
long during a time where there was less international trade. Policies set in selected countries to “maintain the value of their currency” resulted in an outcome of bank
failures.[70] Governments that continued to follow the gold standard were led into bank failure, meaning that it was the governments and central bankers that
contributed as a stepping stool into the depression.
The debate has three sides: one group says the crash caused the depression by drastically lowering expectations about the future and by removing large sums of
investment capital; a second group says the economy was slipping since summer 1929 and the crash ratified it; the third group says that in either scenario the crash
could not have caused more than a recession. There was a brief recovery in the market into April 1930, but prices then started falling steadily again from there, not
reaching a final bottom until July 1932. This was the largest long-term U.S. market decline by any measure. To move from a recession in 1930 to a deep depression
in 1931–32, entirely different factors had to be in play.[71]
Protectionism
Protectionism, such as the Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act, is often indicted as a cause of the Great Depression, with countries enacting protectionist policies yielding a
beggar thy neighbor result.[72][73] The Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act was especially harmful to agriculture because it caused farmers to default on their loans. This event
may have worsened or even caused the ensuing bank runs in the Midwest and West that caused the collapse of the banking system. A petition signed by over 1,000
economists was presented to the U.S. government warning that the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act would bring disastrous economic repercussions; however, this did not
stop the act from being signed into law.
Governments around the world took various steps into spending less money on foreign goods such as: “imposing tariffs, import quotas, and exchange
controls” (Eichengreen, B.). These restrictions formed a lot of tension between trade nations, causing a major deduction during the depression. Not all countries
enforced the same measures of protectionism. Some countries raised tariffs drastically and enforced severe restrictions on foreign exchange transactions, while other
countries condensed “trade and exchange restrictions only marginally”.[74]
“Countries that remained on the gold standard, keeping currencies fixed, were more likely to restrict foreign trade.” These countries became more competitive and
“resorted to protectionist policies to strengthen the balance of payments and limit gold losses.” They hoped that these restrictions and depletions would lead them
towards economic recovery. On the other hand, countries that chose to alleviate the gold standard, allowing fluidity in their currencies, experienced economic
recovery and “benefited from gold inflows”.[74]
There were three options left that could lead economies back to recovery. These options were: “wage and price deflation to restore external and internal balance at the
current gold parity; trade and payments restrictions to limit spending on imports and reduce gold outflows; or abandoning the gold standard and allowing the
exchange rate to depreciate”.[74]
Some economists argue that protectionism was not a cause but a reaction to the depression,[73] with protectionism policies being adopted by countries holding to the
gold standard rather than having floating exchange rates: countries on the gold standard could not cut interest rates or act as lender of last resort because they would
run out of gold, while countries off the gold standard could cut interest rates and print fiat money. In this interpretation, protectionism served to change the terms of
trade for countries whose monetary policy was constrained by the gold standard.
International Debt Structure
When the war came to an end in 1918, all European nations that had been allied with the U.S. owed large sums of money to American banks, sums much too large to
be repaid out of their shattered treasuries. This is one reason why the Allies had insisted (to the consternation of Woodrow Wilson) on demanding reparation
payments from Germany and Austria–Hungary. Reparations, they believed, would provide them with a way to pay off their own debts. However, Germany and
Austria-Hungary were themselves in deep economic trouble after the war; they were no more able to pay the reparations than the Allies were able to pay their debts.
The debtor nations put strong pressure on the U.S. in the 1920s to forgive the debts, or at least reduce them. The American government refused. Instead, U.S. banks
began making large loans to the nations of Europe. Thus, debts (and reparations) were being paid only by augmenting old debts and piling up new ones. In the late
1920s, and particularly after the American economy began to weaken after 1929, the European nations found it much more difficult to borrow money from the U.S.
At the same time, high U.S. tariffs were making it much more difficult for them to sell their goods in U.S. markets. Without any source of revenue from foreign
exchange to repay their loans, they began to default.
Beginning late in the 1920s, European demand for U.S. goods began to decline. That was partly because European industry and agriculture were becoming more
productive, and partly because some European nations (most notably Weimar Germany) were suffering serious financial crises and could not afford to buy goods
overseas. However, the central issue causing the destabilization of the European economy in the late 1920s was the international debt structure that had emerged in
the aftermath of World War I.
The high tariff walls such as the Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act critically impeded the payment of war debts. As a result of high U.S. tariffs, only a sort of cycle kept the
reparations and war-debt payments going. During the 1920s, the former allies paid the war-debt installments to the U.S. chiefly with funds obtained from German
reparations payments, and Germany was able to make those payments only because of large private loans from the U.S. and Britain. Similarly, U.S. investments
abroad provided the dollars, which alone made it possible for foreign nations to buy U.S. exports.
The Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act was instituted by Senator Reed Smoot and Representative Willis C. Hawley, and signed into law by President Hoover, to raise taxes on
American imports by about 20 percent during June 1930. This tax, which aided towards the exceedingly damaged American income and overproduction, was only
beneficial towards the Americans in having to spend less on foreign goods. In contrast, European trading nations frowned upon this tax increase, particularly since
the “United States was an international creditor and exports to the U.S. market were already declining”.[74] In response to the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act, some of
America’s primary producers and largest trading partner, Canada, chose to seek retribution by increasing the financial value of imported goods favoured by the
Americans.
In the scramble for liquidity that followed the 1929 stock market crash, funds flowed back from Europe to America, and Europe's fragile economies crumbled.
By 1931, the world was reeling from the worst depression of recent memory, and the entire structure of reparations and war debts collapsed.
Population dynamics
In 1939, prominent economist Alvin Hansen discussed the decline in population growth in relation to the Depression.[75] The same idea was discussed in a 1978
journal article by Clarence Barber, an economist at the University of Manitoba. Using "a form of the Harrod model" to analyze the Depression, Barber states:
In such a model, one would look for the origins of a serious depression in conditions which produced a decline in Harrod's natural rate of growth, more
specifically, in a decline in the rate of population and labour force growth and in the rate of growth of productivity or technical progress, to a level below
the warranted rate of growth.[76]
The Great Depression in an international context.
Barber says, while there is "no clear evidence" of a decline in "the rate of growth of productivity" during the 1920s, there is "clear evidence" the population growth
rate began to decline during that same period. He argues the decline in population growth rate may have caused a decline in "the natural rate of growth" which was
significant enough to cause a serious depression.[76]
Barber says a decline in the population growth rate is likely to affect the demand for housing, and claims this is apparently what happened during the 1920s. He
concludes:
the rapid and very large decline in the rate of growth of non-farm households was clearly the major reason for the decline that occurred in residential
construction in the United States from 1926 on. And this decline, as Bolch and Pilgrim have claimed, may well have been the most important single
factor in turning the 1929 downturn into a major depression.[77]
The decline in housing construction that can be attributed to demographics has been estimated to range from 28% in 1933 to 38% in 1940.[78]
Among the causes of the decline in the population growth rate during the 1920s were a declining birth rate after 1910[79] and reduced immigration. The decline in
immigration was largely the result of legislation in the 1920s placing greater restrictions on immigration. In 1921, Congress passed the Emergency Quota Act,
followed by the Immigration Act of 1924.
Factors that majorly contributed to the failing of the economy since 1925, was a decrease in both residential and non-residential buildings being constructed. It was
the debt as a result of the war, less families being formed, and an imbalance of mortgage payments and loans in 1928–29 that mainly contributed to the decline in the
amount of houses being built. This caused the populate growth rate to decelerate. Though non-residential units continued to be built “at a high rate throughout the
decade”, the demands for such units were actually very low[64]
Role of economic policy
Calvin Coolidge (1923–29)
There is an ongoing debate between historians as to what extent President Calvin Coolidge's laissez-faire hands-off attitude has contributed to the Great Depression.
Despite a growing rate of bank failures he did not heed voices that predicted the lack of banking regulation as potentially dangerous. He did not listen to members of
Congress warning that stock speculation had gone too far and he ignored criticisms that workers did not participate sufficiently in the prosperity of the Roaring
Twenties.[80]
Leave-it-alone liquidationism (1929–33)
Overview
From the point of view of today's mainstream schools of economic thought, government
should strive to keep some broad nominal aggregate on a stable growth path (for
proponents of new classical macroeconomics and monetarism, the measure is the nominal
money supply; for Keynesian economists it is the nominal aggregate demand itself).
During a depression the central bank should pour liquidity into the banking system and the
government should cut taxes and accelerate spending in order to keep the nominal money
stock and total nominal demand from collapsing.[81]
The United States government and the Federal Reserve did not do that during the 1929-32
slide into the Great Depression[81] The existence of "liquidationism" played a key part in
motivating public policy decisions not to fight the gathering Great Depression. An
increasingly common view among economic historians is that the adherence of some
Federal Reserve policymakers to the liquidationist thesis led to disastrous consequences.
[82] Regarding the policies of President Hoover, economists Barry Eichengreen and J.
Bradford DeLong point out that the Hoover administration’s fiscal policy was guided by
liquidationist economists and policy makers, as Hoover tried to keep the federal budget
balanced until 1932, when Hoover lost confidence in his Secretary of the Treasury
Andrew Mellon and replaced him.[83][84][85] Hoover wrote in his memoirs he did not side
with the liquidationists, but took the side of those in his cabinet with "economic responsibility", his Secretary of Commerce Robert P. Lamont and Secretary of
Agriculture Arthur M. Hyde, who advised the President to "use the powers of government to cushion the situation".[86] But at the same time he kept Andrew Mellon
as Secretary of the Treasury until February 1932. It was during 1932 that Hoover began to support more aggressive measures to combat the Depression.[87] In his
memoirs, President Hoover wrote bitterly about members of his Cabinet who had advised inaction during the downslide into the Great Depression:
The leave-it-alone liquidationists headed by Secretary of the Treasury Mellon ... felt that government must keep its hands off and let the slump liquidate
itself. Mr. Mellon had only one formula: "Liquidate labor, liquidate stocks, liquidate the farmers, liquidate real estate ... It will purge the rottenness out of
the system. High costs of living and high living will come down. People will work harder, live a more moral life. Values will be adjusted, and
enterprising people will pick up the wrecks from less competent people."[81]
Before the Keynesian Revolution, such a liquidationist theory was a common position for economists to take and was held and advanced by economists like Friedrich
Hayek, Lionel Robbins Joseph Schumpeter, Seymour Harris and others.[85] According to the liquidationists a depression is good medicine. The function of a
depression is to liquidate failed investments and businesses that have been made obsolete by technological development in order to release factors of production
(capital and labor) from unproductive uses. These can then be redeployed in other sectors of the technologically dynamic economy. They pointed to the short duration
of the Depression of 1920–21 was due to the policy of letting the liquidation occur and argued that the crisis had laid the groundwork for the prosperity of the later
1920s. They pushed for deflationary policies (which were already executed in 1921) which – in their opinion – would assist the release of capital and labor from
unproductive activities to lay the groundwork for a new economic boom. The liquidationists argued that even if self-adjustment of the economy took mass
bankruptcies, then so be it.[85] Postponing the liquidation process would only magnify the social costs. Schumpeter wrote that it[81]
... leads us to believe that recovery is sound only if it does come of itself. For any revival which is merely due to artificial stimulus leaves part of the
work of depressions undone and adds, to an undigested remnant of maladjustment, new maladjustment of its own which has to be liquidated in turn, thus
threatening business with another (worse) crisis ahead.
Unemployment rate in the US 1910–60, with the years of the
Great Depression (1929–39) highlighted; accurate data
begins in 1939.
Federal spending in millions of dollars (1910–60). The time
period of the Hoover administration, the New Deal and
World War II are highlighted.
Despite liquidationist expectations, a large proportion of the capital stock was not redeployed and vanished during the first years of the Great Depression. According
to a study by Olivier Blanchard and Lawrence Summers, the recession caused a drop of net capital accumulation to pre-1924 levels by 1933.[88]
Criticism
Economists such as John Maynard Keynes and Milton Friedman suggested that the do-nothing policy prescription which resulted from the liquidationist theory
contributed to deepening the Great Depression.[83] With the rhetoric of ridicule Keynes tried to discredit the liquidationist view in presenting Hayek, Robbins and
Schumpeter as
...austere and puritanical souls [who] regard [the Great Depression] ... as an inevitable and a desirable nemesis on so much "overexpansion" as they call
it ... It would, they feel, be a victory for the mammon of unrighteousness if so much prosperity was not subsequently balanced by universal bankruptcy.
We need, they say, what they politely call a 'prolonged liquidation' to put us right. The liquidation, they tell us, is not yet complete. But in time it will be.
And when sufficient time has elapsed for the completion of the liquidation, all will be well with us again...
Milton Friedman stated that at the University of Chicago such “dangerous nonsense” was never taught and that he understood why at Harvard —where such nonsense
was taught— bright young economists rejected their teachers' macroeconomics, and become Keynesians.[81] He wrote:
I think the Austrian business-cycle theory has done the world a great deal of harm. If you go back to the 1930s, which is a key point, here you had the
Austrians sitting in London, Hayek and Lionel Robbins, and saying you just have to let the bottom drop out of the world. You’ve just got to let it cure
itself. You can’t do anything about it. You will only make it worse.… I think by encouraging that kind of do-nothing policy both in Britain and in the
United States, they did harm.[83]
Economist Lawrence White, while acknowledging that Hayek and Robbins did not actively oppose the deflationary policy of the early 1930s, nevertheless challenges
the argument of Milton Friedman, J. Bradford DeLong et al. that Hayek was a proponent of liquidationism. White argues that the business cycle theory of Hayek and
Robbins (which later developed into Austrian business cycle theory in its present-day form) was actually not consistent with a monetary policy which permitted a
severe contraction of the money supply. Nevertheless, White says that at the time of the Great Depression Hayek "expressed ambivalence about the shrinking
nomimal income and sharp deflation in 1929–32".[89] In a talk in 1975, Hayek admitted the mistake he made over forty years earlier in not opposing the Central
Bank's deflationary policy and stated the reason why he had been "ambivalent": "At that time I believed that a process of deflation of some short duration might break
the rigidity of wages which I thought was incompatible with a functioning economy."[41] 1979 Hayek strongly criticized the Fed's contractionary monetary policy
early in the Depression and its failure to offer banks liquidity:
I agree with Milton Friedman that once the Crash had occurred, the Federal Reserve System pursued a silly deflationary policy. I am not only against
inflation but I am also against deflation. So, once again, a badly programmed monetary policy prolonged the depression.[42]
Herbert Hoover (1929–33)
Economic policy
Historians gave Hoover credit for working tirelessly to combat the depression and noted that he left
government prematurely aged. But his policies are rated as simply not far-reaching enough to address the
Great Depression. He was prepared to do something, but nowhere near enough.[90] Hoover was no
exponent of laissez-faire. But his principal philosophies were voluntarism, self-help, and rugged
individualism. He refused direct federal intervention. He believed that government should do more than
his immediate predecessors (Warren G. Harding, Calvin Coolidge) believed. But he was not willing to go
as far as Franklin D. Roosevelt later did. Therefore, he is described as the "first of the new presidents" and
"the last of the old".[91]
Hoovers first measures were based on voluntarism by businesses not to reduce their workforce or cut
wages. But businesses had little choice and wages were reduced, workers were laid off, and investments
postponed. Hoover urged bankers to set up the National Credit Corporation so that big banks could help
failing banks survive. But bankers were reluctant to invest in failing banks, and the National Credit
Corporation did almost nothing to address the problem.[92] In 1932 Hoover reluctantly established the
Reconstruction Finance Corporation, a Federal agency with the authority to lend up to $2 billion to rescue
banks and restore confidence in financial institutions. But $2 billion was not enough to save all the banks, and bank runs and bank failures continued.[93]
Federal spending
J. Bradford DeLong explained that Hoover would have been a budget cutter in normal times and
continuously wanted to balance the budget. Hoover held the line against powerful political forces that
sought to increase government spending after the Depression began for fully two and a half years. During
the first two years of the Depression (1929 and 1930) Hoover actually achieved budget surpluses of about
0.8% of gross domestic product (GDP). In 1931, when the recession significantly worsened and GDP
declined by 15%, the federal budget had only a small deficit of 0.6% of GDP. It was not until 1932 (when
GDP declined by 27% compared to 1929-level) that Hoover pushed for measures (Reconstruction
Finance Corporation, Federal Home Loan Bank Act, direct loans to fund state Depression relief
programs) that increased spending. But at the same time he pushed for the Revenue Act of 1932 that
massively increased taxes in order to balance the budget again.[87]
Uncertainty was a major factor, argued by several economists, that contributed to the worsening and
length of the depression. It was also said to be responsible “for the initial decline in consumption that
marks the” beginning of the Great Depression by economists Paul R. Flacco and Randall E. Parker.
Economist Ludwig Lachmann argues that it was pessimism that prevented the recovery and worsening of
the depression[94] President Hoover is said to have been blinded from what was right in front of him.
USA GDP annual pattern and long-term trend, 1920–40, in
billions of constant dollars.
Economist James Deusenberry argues economic imbalance was not only a result of World War I, but also of the structural changes made during the first quarter of
the Twentieth Century. He also states the branches of the nation’s economy became smaller, there was not much demand for housing, and the stock market crash
“had a more direct impact on consumption than any previous financial panic”[95]
Economist William A. Lewis describes the conflict between America and its primary producers:
Misfortunes (of the 1930’s) were due principally to the fact that the production of primary commodities after the war was somewhat in excess of
demand. It was this which, by keeping the terms of trade unfavourable to primary producers, kept the trade in manufactures so low, to the detriment of
some countries as the United Kingdom, even in the twenties, and it was this which pulled the world economy down in the early thirties….If primary
commodity markets had not been so insecure the crisis of 1929 would not have become a great depression....It was the violent fall of prices that was
deflationary.[96]
The stock market crash was not the first sign of the Great Depression. “Long before the crash, community banks were failing at the rate of one per day”.[69] It was the
development of the Federal Reserve System that misled investors in the ‘20s into relying on federal banks as a safety net. They were encouraged to continue buying
stocks and to overlook any of the fluctuations. Economist Roger Babson tried to warn the investors of the deficiency to come, but was ridiculed even as the economy
began to deteriorate during the summer of 1929. While England and Germany struggled under the strain on gold currencies after the war, economists were blinded by
an unsustainable ‘new economy' they sought to be considerably stable and successful.[69]
Since the United States decided to no longer comply with the gold standard, “the value of the dollar could change freely from day to day”.[70] Although this
imbalance on an international scale led to crisis, the economy within the nation remained stable.
The depression then affected all nations on an international scale. “The German mark collapsed when the chancellor put domestic politics ahead of sensible finance;
the bank of England abandoned the gold standard after a subsequent speculative attack; and the U.S. Federal Reserve raised its discount rate dramatically in October
1931 to preserve the value of the dollar”.[70] The Federal Reserve drove the American economy into an even deeper depression.
Tax policy
In 1929 the Hoover administration responded to the economic crises by temporarily lowering income tax rates and the corporate tax rate.[97] At the beginning of 1931,
tax returns showed a tremendous decline in income due to the economic downturn. Income tax receipts were 40% less than in 1930. At the same time government
spending proved to be a lot greater than estimated.[97] As a result, the budget deficit increased tremendously. While Secretary of the Treasury Andrew Mellon urged
to increase taxes, Hoover had no desire to do so since 1932 was an election year.[98] In December 1931, hopes that the economic downturn would come to an end
vanished since all economic indicators pointed to a continuing downward trend.[99] On January 7, 1932, Andrew Mellon announced that the Hoover administration
would end a further increase in public debt by raising taxes.[100] On June 6, 1932, the Revenue Act of 1932 was signed into law. It raised taxes on all brackets, tripling
the tax rate on the poorest, and on the wealthy he increased taxes from 25% to 63%.[101][102] The higher taxes were first to be paid for the fiscal year 1933 when
coincidently the long recession ended.
Franklin Delano Roosevelt (1933–45)
The New Deal was Roosevelt´s response to the Great Depression. The reception is mixed. While some
historians and economists argue that the New Deal was the key to recovery others argue that it prolonged
the Great Depression.
In a survey of economic historians conducted by Robert Whaples, Professor of Economics at Wake Forest
University, anonymous questionnaires were sent to members of the Economic History Association.
Members were asked to either disagree, agree, or agree with provisos with the statement that read:
"Taken as a whole, government policies of the New Deal served to lengthen and deepen the Great
Depression." While only 6% of economic historians who worked in the history department of their
universities agreed with the statement, 27% of those that work in the economics department agreed.
Almost an identical percent of the two groups (21% and 22%) agreed with the statement "with
provisos" (a conditional stipulation), while 74% of those who worked in the history department, and 51%
in the economic department disagreed with the statement outright.[103]
Arguments for key to recovery
According to Peter Temin, Barry Wigmore, Gauti B. Eggertsson and Christina Romer the biggest primary
impact of the New Deal on the economy and the key to recovery and to end the Great Depression was brought about by a successful management of public
expectations. Before the first New Deal measures people expected a contractionary economic situation (recession, deflation) to persist. Roosevelt's fiscal and
monetary policy regime change helped to make his policy objectives credible. Expectations changed towards an expansionary development (economic growth,
inflation). The expectation of higher future income and higher future inflation stimulated demand and investments. The analysis suggests that the elimination of the
policy dogmas of the gold standard, balanced budget and small government led endogenously to a large shift in expectation that accounts for about 70–80 percent of
the recovery of output and prices from 1933 to 1937. If the regime change would not have happened and the Hoover policy would have continued, the economy
would have continued its free fall in 1933, and output would have been 30 percent lower in 1937 than in 1933.[32][33]
Arguments for prolongation of the Great Depression
In the new classical macroeconomics view of the Great Depression large negative shocks caused the 1929–33 downturn – including monetary shocks, productivity
shocks, and banking shocks – but those developments become positive after 1933 due to monetary and banking reform policies. According to the model Cole-
Ohanian impose, the main culprits for the prolonged depression were labor frictions and productivity/efficiency frictions (perhaps, to a lesser extent). Financial
frictions are unlikely to have caused the prolonged slump.[104][105]
In the Cole-Ohanian model there is a slower than normal recovery which they explain by New Deal policies which they evaluated as tending towards monopoly and
distribution of wealth. The key economic paper looking at these diagnostic sources in relation to the Great Depression is Cole and Ohanian’s work. Cole-Ohanian
point at two policies of New Deal: the National Industrial Recovery Act and National Labor Relations Act (NLRA), the latter strengthening NIRA’s labor provision.
According to Cole-Ohanian New Deal policies created cartelization, high wages, and high prices in at least manufacturing and some energy and mining industries.
Roosevelts policies against the severity of the Depression like the NIRA, a “code of fair competition” for each industry were aimed to reduce cutthroat competition in
a period of severe deflation, which was seen as the cause for lowered demand and employment. The NIRA suspended antitrust laws and permitted collusion in some
sectors provided that industry raised wages above clearing level and accepted collective bargaining with labor unions. The effects of cartelization can be seen as the
basic effect of monopoly. The given corporation produces too little, charges too high of a price, and under-employs labor. Likewise, an increase in the power of
unions creates a situation similar to monopoly. Wages are too high for the union members, so the corporation employs fewer people and, produces less output. Cole-
Ohanian show that 60% of the difference between the trend and realized output is due to cartelization and unions.[104] Chari, Kehoe, McGrattan also present a nice
exposition that’s in line with Cole-Ohanian. .[105]
This type of analysis has numerous counterarguments including the applicability of the equilibrium business cycle to the Great Depression.[106]
See also
◾ Political philosophy
◾ Timeline of the Great Depression
Notes
1. Beaudreau, Bernard C. (1996). Mass Production, the Stock Market Crash and the
Great Depression. New York, Lincoln, Shanghi: Authors Choice Press.
2. Field, Alexander J. (2011). A Great Leap Forward: 1930s Depression and U.S.
Economic Growth. New Haven, London: Yale University Press. p. 182. ISBN 978-
0-300-15109-1<Field cites Freeman & Schwartz (1963), Temin (1976), Bernanke
(1983), Field (1984), Romer (1990), Eighengreen (1992).>
3. Robert Whaples, Where Is There Consensus Among American Economic
Historians? The Results of a Survey on Forty Propositions., Journal of Economic
History, Vol. 55, No. 1 (March 1995), p. 150 in JSTOR.
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/2123771)
4. Robert Whaples, Where Is There Consensus Among American Economic
Historians? The Results of a Survey on Forty Propositions., Journal of Economic
History, Vol. 55, No. 1 (March 1995), p. 143 in JSTOR.
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/2123771)
5. Keen 2000, p. 198.
6. Caldwell, J., & O'Driscoll, T. G. (2007). What Caused the Great Depression?.
Social Education, 71(2), 70-74
7. Paul Krugman, "Who Was Milton Friedman?" New York Review of Books Volume
32, Number 32 · February 3, 2007 online community
(http://www.nybooks.com/articles/19857)
8. Friedman 1965, p. 4.
9. The History of Economic Downturns in the US – But Now You Know.net
(http://butnowyouknow.wordpress.com/those-who-fail-to-learn-fromhistory/
history-of-economic-downturns-in-the-us/)
10. * Bruner, Robert F.; Carr, Sean D. (2007). The Panic of 1907: Lessons Learned
from the Market's Perfect Storm. Hoboken, New Jersey: John Wiley & Sons.
ISBN 978-0-470-15263-8
11. Gold Standards and the Real Bills Doctrine in US Monetary Policy, Richard H
Timberlake, published in Econ Journal Watch, August 2005 –
http://www.econjournalwatch.org/pdf/TimberlakeIntellectualTyrannyAugust2005.pdf
12. Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar publishing, 2003,
ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 11
13. Ben Bernanke, "Non-monetary effects of the financial crisis in the propagation of
the Great Depression", (1983) American Economic Review . Am 73#3 257–76.
14. Friedman 2007, p. 15.
15. (Samuelson 1948, p. 353)
16. Samuelson, Friedman, and monetary policy
(http://krugman.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/12/14/samuelson-friedman-and-monetarypolicy/),
Paul Krugman, New York Times Blog, December 14, 2009
17. Robert Whaples, Where Is There Consensus Among American Economic
Historians? The Results of a Survey on Forty Propositions., Journal of Economic
History, Vol. 55, No. 1 (March 1995), p. 150, in JSTOR
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/2123771?seq=1#page_scan_tab_contents)
18. [1] (http://www.johnmauldin.com/images/uploads/pdf/mwo071811.pdf) Several
graphs of total debt to GDP can be found on the Internet.
19. Jerome, Harry (1934). Mechanization in Industry, National Bureau of Economic
Research.
20. Hansen, Alvin (1939). "Economic Progress and Declining Population Growth".
American Economic Review'. 29 (March).
21. Fisher, Irving (October 1933). "The Debt-Deflation Theory of Great Depressions".
Econometrica. The Econometric Society. 1 (4): 337–357. doi:10.2307/1907327.
JSTOR 1907327.
22. Fortune, Peter (Sep–Oct 2000). "Margin Requirements, Margin Loans, and Margin
Rates: Practice and Principles – analysis of history of margin credit regulations –
Statistical Data Included". New England Economic Review.
23. "Bank Failures". Living History Farm. Retrieved 2008-05-22.
24. "Friedman and Schwartz, Monetary History of the United States", 352
25. Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Edward Elgar Publishing,
2003, ISBN 9781843765509, p. 14-15
26. Bernanke, Ben S (June 1983). "Non-Monetary Effects of the Financial Crisis in the
Propagation of the Great Depression". The American Economic Review. The
American Economic Association. 73 (3): 257–276. JSTOR 1808111.
27. Mishkin, Fredric (December 1978). "The Household Balance and the Great
Depression". Journal of Economic History. 38 (4): 918–37.
doi:10.1017/S0022050700087167.
28. Keen, Steve (2012-12-06). "Briefing for Congress on the Fiscal Cliff: Lessons from
the 1930s - Steve Keen's Debtwatch". Debtdeflation.com. Retrieved 2014-12-01.
29. http://libertyloveandjusticeforall.com/2012/12/08/debt-reset-is-inevitable/
30. Friedersdorf, Conor (2012-12-05). "What If the Fiscal Cliff Is the Wrong Cliff?".
The Atlantic. Retrieved 2014-12-01.
31. "Private Debt Caused The Current Great Depression, Not Public Debt - Michael
Clark". Seeking Alpha. Retrieved 2014-12-01.
32. Gauti B. Eggertsson, Great Expectations and the End of the Depression
(http://www.aeaweb.org/articles.php?doi=10.1257/aer.98.4.1476), American
Economic Review 2008, 98:4, 1476–1516
33. The New York Times, Christina Romer, The Fiscal Stimulus, Flawed but Valuable
(http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/21/business/how-the-fiscal-stimulus-helpedand-
could-have-done-more.html?hp&_r=0), October 20, 2012
34. Peter Temin, Lessons from the Great Depression, MIT Press, 1992, ISBN
9780262261197, p. 87-101
35. Gauti B. Eggertsson, Great Expectations and the End of the Depression
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/29730131), The American Economic Review, Vol. 98,
No. 4 (Sep., 2008), S. 1476-1516, p. 1480
36. Murray Rothbard, America's Great Depression (Ludwig von Mises Institute, 2000),
pp. 159–63.
37. Rothbard, America's Great Depression, pp. 19–21"
38. Mises, Ludwig von (2006). The Causes of the Economic Crisis; and Other Essays
Before and After the Great Depression. Ludwig von Mises Institute. p. 207.
ISBN 978-1933550039.
39. Rothbard, A History of Money and Banking in the United States, pp. 293–94.
40. John Cunningham Wood, Robert D. Wood, Friedrich A. Hayek, Taylor & Francis,
2004, ISBN 9780415310574, p. 115
41. White, Clash of Economic Ideas, p. 94. See alsoWhite, Lawrence (2008). "Did
Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?". Journal of Money, Credit and
Banking. 40 (40): 751–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x.
42. F. A. Hayek, interviewed by Diego Pizano July, 1979 published in: Diego Pizano,
Conversations with Great Economists: Friedrich A. Hayek, John Hicks, Nicholas
Kaldor, Leonid V. Kantorovich, Joan Robinson, Paul A.Samuelson, Jan Tinbergen
(Jorge Pinto Books, 2009).
43. Sennholz, Hans (October 1, 1969). "The Great Depression". Foundation for
Economic Education. Retrieved October 23, 2016.
44. "Lewis Corey: The Decline of American Capitalism (1934)". Marxists.org. 2007-
09-30. Retrieved 2014-12-01.
45. Bell, Spurgeon (1940). "Productivity, Wages and National Income , The Institute of
Economics of the Brookings Institution".
46. Yergin, Daniel (1992). The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money $ Power.
47. Vatter, Harold G.; Walker, John F.; Alperovitz, Gar (2005). "The onset and
persistence of secular stagnation in the U.S. economy: 1910-1990, Journal of
Economic Issues".
48. Beaudreau (1996) cites capacity utilization at 84-86%, which would be a decent
number today; however, there were some industrial leaders who complained of
overcapacity, as did Senator Smoot.
49. Jerome, Harry (1934). Mechanization in Industry, National Bureau of Economic
Research<For the several industries studied industry expansion offset most of the
productivity gains that would otherwise have resulted in many more job losses than
actually occurred. To prevent rising unemployment the laid off workers would have
to have changed industries, but it was noted that even if workers were successful at
such a change the time typically took 18 months or more. The employment
statistics for the 1930 census reflect conditions after the start of the depression so
the actual employment situation prior to the depression is unknown.>
50. "Hours of Work in U.S. History". 2010.
51. Whaples, Robert (June 1991). "The Shortening of the American Work Week: An
Economic and Historical Analysis of Its Context, Causes, and Consequences, The
Journal of Economic History, Vol. 51, No. 2; pp. 454–57".
52. Field, Alexander (2004). "Technological Change and Economic Growth the
Interwar Years and the 1990s" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2012-03-
10.
53. Hubbert, M. King (1940). "Man Hours and Distribution , Derived from Man Hours:
A Declining Quantity, Technocracy, Series A, No. 8, August 1936".
54. Stiglitz, Joseph (2011). "The Book of Jobs". Vanity Fair. Retrieved 2011-12-23
55. Ayres, R. U.; Ayres, L. W.; Warr, B. (2002). "Exergy, Power and Work in the U. S.
Economy 1900–1998, Insead's Center For the Management of Environmental
Resources, 2002/52/EPS/CMER" (PDF)<Fig. 4 in Appendix>From one-sixth to
one-quarter of all land had been used to grow animal feed.
56. Atack, Jeremy; Passell, Peter (1994). A New Economic View of American History.
New York: W.W. Norton and Co. pp. 574–6. ISBN 0-393-96315-2.
57. General Motors and the Decline of Streetcars
(http://debunkportland.com/printables/TQOrigin.pdf)
58. Field, Alexander J. (2011). A Great Leap Forward: 1930s Depression and U.S.
Economic Growth. New Haven, London: Yale University Press. ISBN 978-0-300-
15109-1.
59. David M. Kennedy, 'Freedom From Fear, The American People in Depression and
War 1929–1945, Oxford University Press, 1999, ISBN 0-19-503834-7, pp. 122,
123
60. Dorfman,1959
61. Allgoewer, Elisabeth (May 2002). "Underconsumption theories and Keynesian
economics. Interpretations of the Great Depression" (PDF). Discussion paper no.
2002-14.
62. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p. 108
63. The Road to Plenty (1928)
64. Chapter 15: The Great Depression. (1999). Growth of the International Economy
1820–2000 (pp. 226–34). Taylor & Francis Ltd / Books.
65. Eichengreen 1992, p. xi
66. Bernanke 2002, p. 80
67. Gold Standards and the Real Bills Doctrine in U.S. Monetary Policy, RICHARD H.
TIMBERLAKE
http://www.econjournalwatch.org/pdf/TimberlakeIntellectualTyrannyAugust2005.pdf
68. Parker, p. 49.
69. Chernow, R. (2009, Oct 23). Everyman's financial meltdown. New York Times
(1923-Current File). Retrieved from
http://search.proquest.com/docview/1030683641
70. Temin, P. (2010). The Great Recession & the Great Depression. Daedalus, 139(4),
115–24.
71. White, 1990.
72. Protectionism and the Great Depression
(http://krugman.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/11/30/protectionism-and-the-greatdepression/),
Paul Krugman, New York Times, November 30, 2009
73. The protectionist temptation: Lessons from the Great Depression for today
(http://voxeu.org/index.php?q=node/3280), VOX, Barry Eichengreen, Douglas
Irwin, 17 March 2009
74. EICHENGREEN, B., & IRWIN, D. A. (2010). The Slide to Protectionism in the
Great Depression: Who Succumbed and Why?. Journal Of Economic History, 70
(4), 871–97.
75. Hansen, Alvin (1939). "Economic Progress and Declining Population Growth".
ISBN 978-1162557823<Originally printed in a journal. Reprinted 2004, 2010>
76. Barber, Clarence L. "On the Origins of the Great Depression", Southern Economic
Journal, January, 1978, 44(3), pp. 432–56.
77. Barber, Clarence L. "On the Origins of the Great Depression", Southern Economic
Journal, January 1978, 44(3), pp. 432–56. See also Bolch, B. W. and J. D. Pilgrim,
"A Reappraisal of Some Factors Associated with Fluctuations in the United States
in the Interwar Period." Southern Economic Journal, January 1973, pp. 327–44.
78. Atack, Jeremy; Passell, Peter (1994). A New Economic View of American History.
New York: W.W. Norton and Co. p. 599. ISBN 0-393-96315-2.
79. Longman, Philip (2004). The Empty Cradle: How Falling Birthrates Threaten
World Prosperity And What to Do About It. p. 87. ISBN 0-465-05050-6.
80. Melvin I. Urofsky, The American Presidents: Critical Essays, ISBN 0-8153-
2184-8, p. 391
81. J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real Business Cycle
Theory and the Great Depression (http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?
new_window=1), National Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No.
3546, p. 1
82. White, Lawrence (2008). "Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?".
Journal of Money, Credit, and Banking. 40 (40): 751–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-
4616.2008.00134.x.
83. White, Lawrence (2008). "Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?".
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking. 40 (40): 751–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-
4616.2008.00134.x.
84. J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real Business Cycle
Theory and the Great Depression (http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?
new_window=1), National Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No.
3546, p. 5
85. Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar publishing, 2003,
ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 9
86. Hoover, Herbert. The Memoirs of Herbert Hoover, p. 31
(http://www.ecommcode.com/hoover/ebooks/pdf/FULL/B1V3_Full.pdf) Archived
(https://web.archive.org/web/20081217233238/http://www.ecommcode.com/hoover/ebooks/pdf/FULL/B1V3_December 17, 2008, at the Wayback Machine.
87. Bradford DeLong, What Was Herbert Hoover's Fiscal Policy?
(http://delong.typepad.com/sdj/2011/07/what-was-herbert-hoovers-fiscalpolicy.
html)
88. J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real Business Cycle
Theory and the Great Depression (http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?
new_window=1), National Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No.
3546, p. 33
89. Lawrence White, The Clash of Economic Ideas: The Great Policy Debates and
Experiments of the 20th Century (Cambridge University Press), p. 94.
90. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 4. Auflage, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, pp. 110–11
91. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 4. Auflage, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p. 120
92. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 4. Auflage, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p. 113
93. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 4. Auflage, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p. 114
94. Houck, D. W. (2000). RHETORIC AS CURRENCY: HERBERT HOOVER AND
THE 1929 STOCK MARKET CRASH. Rhetoric & Public Affairs, 3(2), 155–81.
95. Barber, C. L. (1978). "On the Origins of the Great Depression". Southern Economic
Journal, 44(3), 432.
96. Lewis, W. A. Economic Survey, 1919–1929. London: Allen and Unwin, 1949.
97. Roy G. Blakey, Gladys C. Blakey, The Federal Income Tax, 2006, p. 301
98. Roy G. Blakey, Gladys C. Blakey, The Federal Income Tax, 2006, pp. 302–03
99. Roy G. Blakey, Gladys C. Blakey, The Federal Income Tax, 2006, p. 304
100. Roy G. Blakey, Gladys C. Blakey, The Federal Income Tax, 2006, p. 305
101. The Concise Encyclopedia of Economics: The Great Depression
http://www.econlib.org/library/Enc/GreatDepression.html
102. http://www.cato.org/pubs/bp/bp122.pdf
103. Robert Whaples, "Where Is There Consensus Among American Economic
Historians? The Results of a Survey on Forty Propositions", Journal of Economic
History, Vol. 55, No. 1 (Mar., 1995), pp. 139–54 in JSTOR
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/2123771)
104. Cole, Harold L., and Lee E. Ohanian. "The Great Depression from a Neoclassical
Perspective." N.p., n.d. Web.
<https://www.minneapolisfed.org/research/qr/qr2311.pdf>.
105. Chari, V. V., Patrick J. Kehoe, and Ellen R. McGrattan. "Accounting for the Great
Depression." N.p., n.d. Web.
<https://www.minneapolisfed.org/research/qr/qr2721.pdf>.
106. De Vroey, Michel R. "Real Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression: The
Abandonment of the Abstentionist Viewpoint." N.p., n.d. Web.
<http://www.econ.umn.edu/~tkehoe/classes/DevroeyPensieroso.pdf>.
References
◾ Secular Stagnation and Great Depression, R. L. Norman, Jr. (http://www.secularstagnation.com)
◾ Dorfman, Joseph (1959). "Economic Mind in American Civilization"vol 4 and 5 cover the ideas of all American economists of 1918-1933.
◾ Friedman, Milton and Anna Jacobson Schwartz, A Monetary History of the United States, 1867–1960 (1963)
◾ Keen, Steve 2001. Debunking Economics Pluto Press Australia Limited Sydney, Australia
◾ Meltzer, Allan H. 2003 A History of the Federal Reserve Volume I: 1913–1951 Chicago University Press, Chicago, IL
◾ Rothbard, Murray N. 1963 America's Great Depression D. Van Nostrand Company, Princeton, NJ
◾ Rothbard, Murray N. A History of Money and Banking in the United States: The Colonial Era to World War II (2002)
◾ Samuelson, Paul (1948). "Economics".
◾ White, Eugene N. "The Stock Market Boom and Crash of 1929 Revisited" Journal of Economic Perspectives, Vol. 4, No. 2 (Spring, 1990), pp. 67–83;
examines different theories
Further reading
World
◾ Ambrosius, G. and W. Hibbard. A Social and Economic History of Twentieth-Century Europe (1989)
◾ Barber, Clarence Lyle (University of Manitoba) "On the Origins of the Great Depression" (1978)
◾ Bordo, Michael, and Anna J. Schwartz, eds. A Retrospective on the Classical Gold Standard, 1821–1931 (1984) (National Bureau of Economic Research
Conference Report)
◾ Bordo, Michael et al. eds. The Gold Standard and Related Regimes: Collected Essays (1999)
◾ Brown, Ian. The Economies of Africa and Asia in the Inter-War Depression (1989)
◾ Davis, Joseph S. The World Between the Wars, 1919–39: An Economist's View (1974)
◾ Eichengreen, Barry. Golden Fetters: The Gold Standard and the Great Depression, 1919–1939 (NBER Series on Long-Term Factors in Economic
Development), 1996, ISBN 0-19-510113-8
◾ Eichengreen, Barry, and Marc Flandreau, eds. The Gold Standard in Theory and History (1997)
◾ Feinstein, Charles H. The European Economy Between the Wars (1997)
◾ Garraty, John A. The Great Depression: An Inquiry into the Causes, Course, and Consequences of the Worldwide Depression of the Nineteen-Thirties, as Seen
by Contemporaries and in Light of History (1986)
◾ Garraty, John A. Unemployment in History (1978)
◾ Garside, William R. Capitalism in Crisis: International Responses to the Great Depression (1993)
◾ Haberler, Gottfried. The World Economy, Money, and the Great Depression 1919–1939 (1976)
◾ Hall, Thomas E. and J. David Ferguson. The Great Depression: An International Disaster of Perverse Economic Policies (1998)
◾ Kaiser, David E. Economic Diplomacy and the Origins of the Second World War: Germany, Britain, France and Eastern Europe, 1930–1939 (1980)
◾ Kindleberger, Charles P. The World in Depression, 1929–1939 (1983);
◾ Tipton, F. and R. Aldrich. An Economic and Social History of Europe, 1890–1939 (1987)
United States
◾ Ben S. Bernanke. Essays on the Great Depression (2000)
◾ Bernstein, Michael A. The Great Depression: Delayed Recovery and Economic Change in America, 1929–1939 (1989) focus on low-growth and high-growth
industries
◾ Bordo, Michael D., Claudia Goldin, and Eugene N. White, eds. The Defining Moment: The Great Depression and the American Economy in the Twentieth
Century (1998). Advanced economic history.
◾ Chandler, Lester. America's Greatest Depression (1970). economic history overview.
◾ De Long, Bradford. Liquidation Cycles and the Great Depression (1991)
◾ Horwitz, Steven (2008). "Hoover's Economic Policies". In Henderson, David R. Concise Encyclopedia of Economics (2nd ed.). Indianapolis: Library of
Economics and Liberty. ISBN 978-0865976658. OCLC 237794267.
◾ Jensen, Richard J. "The Causes and Cures of Unemployment in the Great Depression," Journal of Interdisciplinary History 19 (1989) 553–83. online at JSTOR
in most academic libraries
◾ McElvaine, Robert S. The Great Depression (2nd ed 1993) social history
◾ Mitchell, Broadus. Depression Decade: From New Era through New Deal, 1929–1941 (1964), standard economic history overview.
◾ Parker, Randall E. Reflections on the Great Depression (2002) interviews with 11 leading economists
◾ Salsman, Richard M. “The Cause and Consequences of the Great Depression” in The Intellectual Activist, ISSN 0730-2355. Mr. Salsman argues that the Great
Depression was fundamentally caused by statist government policy.
◾ Singleton, Jeff. The American Dole: Unemployment Relief and the Welfare State in the Great Depression (2000) (http://www.questia.com/PM.qst?
a=o&d=24419587)
◾ Warren, Harris Gaylord. Herbert Hoover and the Great Depression (1959).
Role of the United States Federal Reserve
◾ Chandler, Lester V. American Monetary Policy, 1928–41. (1971).
◾ Epstein, Gerald and Thomas Ferguson. "Monetary Policy, Loan Liquidation and Industrial Conflict: Federal Reserve System Open Market Operations in
1932." Journal of Economic History 44 (December 1984): 957–84. in JSTOR
◾ Kubik, Paul J., "Federal Reserve Policy during the Great Depression: The Impact of Interwar Attitudes regarding Consumption and Consumer Credit." Journal
of Economic Issues. Vo: 30. Issue: 3. Publication Year: 1996. pp 829+.
◾ Mayhew, Anne. "Ideology and the Great Depression: Monetary History Rewritten." Journal of Economic Issues 17 (June 1983): 353–60.
◾ Meltzer, Allan H. A History of the Federal Reserve, Volume 1: 1913–1951 (2004) the standard scholarly history
◾ Steindl, Frank G. Monetary Interpretations of the Great Depression. (1995).
◾ Temin, Peter. Did Monetary Forces Cause the Great Depression? (1976).
◾ Wicker, Elmus R. "A Reconsideration of Federal Reserve Policy during the 1920–1921 Depression," Journal of Economic History (1966) 26: 223–38, in
JSTOR
◾ Wicker, Elmus. Federal Reserve Monetary Policy, 1917–33. (1966).
◾ Wells, Donald R. The Federal Reserve System: A History (2004)
◾ Wueschner, Silvano A. Charting Twentieth-Century Monetary Policy: Herbert Hoover and Benjamin Strong, 1917–1927 Greenwood Press. (1999)
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Causes_of_the_Great_Depression&oldid=756605201"
Categories: 1920s Great Depression Causes of events
◾ This page was last modified on 25 December 2016, at 13:22.
◾ Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use
and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
1910年-1960年のアメリカ合衆国の年毎の実質GDP。世界恐慌の期間
(1929年-1939年)をピンク色で示した。
世界恐慌の原因
出典: フリー百科事典『ウィキペディア（Wikipedia）』
この記事は検証可能な参考文献や出典が全く示されていないか、不十分です。
出典を追加して記事の信頼性向上にご協力ください。（2009年11月）
この項目「世界恐慌の原因」は途中まで翻訳されたものです。（原文：英語版 "Causes of the Great
Depression" 00:56, 24 August 2012 （UTC） (https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=Causes_of_the_Great_Depression&oldid=508859943)）
翻訳作業に協力して下さる方を求めています。ノートページや履歴 (https://ja.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=%E4%B8%96%E7%95%8C%E6%81%90%E6%85%8C%E3%81%AE%E5%8E%9F%E5%9B%
A0&action=history)、翻訳のガイドラインも参照してください。要約欄への翻訳情報の記入をお忘れなく。
（2016年2月）
世界恐慌の原因(せかいきょうこうのげんいん)は経済学者達の活発な議論の主題となっており、これは広く見れば経済危機に関する議
論の一環でもある。だが一般的には、世界恐慌は1929年の株価大暴落により引き起こされたと信じられている。世界恐慌時に起きた
個々の経済的事件も徹底的に研究されてきた: そういった事件には、資産や商品価格のデフレ、需要と信用の急降下、貿易網の崩壊、
そして究極的に起こる失業とそれに続く貧困などがある。しかしながら、恐慌を引き起こし、あるいは恐慌からの回復をもたらした政府の
経済政策と個々の事件との因果関係は歴史家の間で意見の一致をみていない。
近年では、理論は二つの主流派といくつかの異説に大きく分けられる。
まず、ケインズ経済学や制度派経済学による需要主導モデルの理論では、不景気は消費不足と(それによってバブル経済が引き起こさ
れたところの)過剰投資によって引き起こされたと主張される。需要主導モデルの理論においては、信用が大きく損なわれたことで消費・
投資活動の急激な減少が起きたということで意見が一致している。一たび混乱・デフレが起こると、多くの人々は市場から距離を置くこと
でこれ以上の損失を回避しようとするというのである。このために物価は下がり続け、等量のお金でも多くの物品を買えるようになる。そ
の結果、お金を貯蓄に回すことが有利となり、更なる需要減少に見舞われることになる。
次に、マネタリストらによれば、世界恐慌は通常の不景気として始まったのだが、その時の通貨当局(特に連邦準備制度)による重大な政
策のミスが金融引締めという結果を招き、これによって経済状況が極端に悪化したために通常の不景気から世界恐慌に至ったという。こ
の説明は、負債デフレによって借り手は実質的により多くの債務を負うことになると指摘する人々と関連がある。
このほかにいくつかの異説があり、それらを支持してケインジアンやマネタリストの説明を否定する者がいる。新しい古典派マクロ経済学
者の中には、恐慌初期に課された様々な労働市場政策が長く深刻な世界恐慌を齎したと主張する者もいる。オーストリア経済学派は、
中央銀行の決定がどのようにして誤投資を招くかとマネーサプライのマクロ経済的影響に着目する。
目次
◾ 1 一般理論による説明
◾ 1.1 主流説
◾ 1.1.1 ケインジアン
◾ 1.1.2 マネタリスト
◾ 1.2 異説
◾ 1.2.1 オーストリア学派
◾ 1.2.2 マルクス主義
◾ 2 原因に関する個々の理論
◾ 2.1 負債デフレ
◾ 2.2 負債以外の原因によるデフレ
◾ 2.3 生産に対する衝撃
◾ 2.4 富と収入の不均衡
◾ 2.5 金本位制
◾ 2.6 金融機関の構造
◾ 2.7 保護貿易主義
◾ 2.8 国際的な債権構造
◾ 2.9 集団動力学
◾ 3 経済政策の役割
◾ 3.1 放任清算主義
◾ 3.2 オーストリア学派の政府膨張論
◾ 3.2.1 消費の増大
◾ 3.2.2 新たな公的規制
◾ 3.2.3 税率の引き上げ
◾ 4 関連項目
◾ 5 脚注
◾ 6 参考文献
◾ 7 関連文献
◾ 7.1 世界
◾ 7.2 アメリカ合衆国
◾ 7.3 連邦準備制度の役割
一般理論による説明
主流説
ケインジアン
多くの経済学者がその活動を主張するところの自己修正機構が不景気に働かないことがある理由は複数あると1936年に経済学者ジョ
ン・メイナード・ケインズが主張した。著書『雇用・利子および貨幣の一般理論』においてケインズは、世界恐慌を説明するための概念を導
入した。不景気時における不干渉主義政策に対する一つの主張として、もし貯蓄によって消費が落ち込むならば貯蓄は利率の低下をも
たらすというものがある。古典派経済学者によれば、低い利率は投資の拡大をもたらし需要が持続的になるという。
しかし、利率が低下しても投資が必ずしも活発にならないことの良い説明があるとケインズは主張する。利益を期待しての投資は事業に
よってもたらされる。それゆえ、消費の落ち込みが長期にわたるならば、事業の分析の傾向として将来の売り上げの期待は低いものとな
る。そのため、低利率によって資本が安価になっても将来の生産量を増大させるような投資は最も関心が向かないものとなるのである。
この場合、消費の減少によって経済は一斉安に陥る[1]。ケインズによれば、この自己強化的活動こそが恐慌時に非常に活発になり、倒
産が頻発して(将来に対する楽観的な期待が必要である)投資がほとんど起こらなくなったのだという。この説は経済学者によってしばし
ばセイの法則に反するものとして特徴づけられ、特にオーストリア経済学派に人気がある。
資本投資の減少が恐慌の原因であるという説は長期停滞論の中心的な主題である。
マネタリスト
1963年の著書『米国金融史 1867年-1960年』において、ミルトン・フリードマンとアンナ・シュウォーツは彼ら流の世界恐慌の説明を開陳し
た。彼らの考えによれば、本質的には、世界恐慌はマネーサプライの減少によってもたらされた。フリードマンとシュウォーツは次のように
書いている: 「1929年8月の周期的な山から1933年の周期的な谷までの間に、通貨流通量は3分の1強にまで落ち込んだ。」その結果が
フリードマンいう所の「大収縮」―金融引き締めの窒息効果による収入・物価・雇用の減退―である。この頃、連邦準備制度が供給する
より以上に人々はお金を欲していたのだとフリードマンとシュウォーツは主張する。その結果人々は消費を減らすことでお金を貯蓄した。
また、物価は即座に下落するほど融通が利かないために、結果として、雇用と生産の収縮が起きた。連邦の過ちは何が起こったのか分
からなかったことや正しい対応を取らなかったことにある[2]。
恐慌以降、その主要な説明はマネーサプライの重要性を無視する傾向があった。しかし、マネタリストによれば、恐慌は「事実上、金融の
効果の重要性の悲劇的な証明である[3]。」彼らによれば、連邦準備制度の世界恐慌に対処する上での失敗は、金融政策が無力である
ことの表れではなく、連邦準備制度が間違った政策を実行したことの表れであるという。彼らは連邦が恐慌を「起こした」と主張しているの
ではなく、不景気が恐慌になるのを防ぐ政策を使い損ねたと言っているだけである。
南北戦争後から20世紀初期にかけて、アメリカ合衆国とヨーロッパは政府が規定する形の金本位制を採用していた。この時期のアメリカ
経済は周期的な好不況の波を受けていた。不景気はしばしば銀行不況によって引き起こされていたとみられ、特に重要なものは1873
年、1893年、1901年、1907年、1920年に起こっている[4]。連邦準備制度が1913年に成立する以前のアメリカ合衆国では銀行システムが
紙幣の兌換性を停止することでこうした(1907年恐慌のような)危機に対処していた。1893年に開始して以降、金融機関やビジネスマンに
よる成長努力がこうした危機に介在し、取り付けに喘ぐ銀行に流動性をもたらしていた。1907年の銀行恐慌の際、J・P・モルガンの招集し
たその場限りの連合がこの方法でうまく介入し、それによって恐慌が遮断されており、このため通常銀行恐慌に続いて起こる大恐慌がこ
の時には起こらなかったのだとされる。政府がこうした解決策をとることが要求されたために連邦準備制度が設立されることとなった[5]。
しかし1928年-1932年には、連邦準備制度は取り付けにあえぐ銀行に流動性をもたらすことはなかった。実際にはその政策はマネーサプ
ライの急激な収縮を許すことで銀行危機に応えていた。狂騒の20年代には、中央銀行は第一の目標を「物価の安定」に定めていたが、
これはニューヨーク連邦準備銀行の総裁ベンジャミン・ストロングが、物価の安定を金融目標とした非常に著名な経済学者アーヴィング・
フィッシャーの弟子だからということもある。そういった事情から中央銀行は社会の物価が安定する程度にドルの流通量を保った。1928年
にストロングが死に、彼の死とともにこの政策が終了し、全ての通貨・証券は背後に実際的な物品を裏付けとして持っているべきだという
真正手形学説が取って代わった。この政策の為にアメリカ合衆国のマネーサプライは1929年から1933年の間に3分の1以上に減少するこ
とになった[6]。
この通貨減少によって銀行への取り付けが起こっても連邦は真正手形学説を保持し、1907年恐慌を遮ったときの方法で銀行に貸し付け
ることを拒否し、代わりに各銀行を破滅的な取り付けにあえぐままにさせ完全に没落させた。この政策によって連鎖的な銀行の倒産が起
こり、当時存在した銀行の3分の1が消滅した。[7]。ベン・バーナンキによれば、続いて起こった信用危機によってさらに倒産の波が起こっ
た[8]。1907年と同じ政策が1930年終わりの銀行恐慌の際にも採用されていればこれによって物価下落時の資産の流動化の強制の悪し
き連鎖が防げただろうとフリードマンは述べた。そうしていれば、1893年や1907年に兌換性停止によって当時の流動性危機がすぐに止ん
だのと同じく、1931年、1932年、1933年の銀行恐慌は起こらなかったであろうというのである[9]。
マネタリストによる説明はサミュエルソンの著書『経済学』において否定されており、「連邦準備制度の金融政策を景気循環を制御する万
能薬とみなす経済学者は今日ではほとんどいない。純粋に金融的なファクターは原因であるのと同じだけ徴候であると考えられる、悪化
させる効果を伴っており完全に無視すべきではない徴候ではあるが[10]。」と述べられている。ケインズ経済学者のポール・クルーグマン
によれば、フリードマンとシュウォーツの著作は1980年代までに主流派経済学者の間で支配的になったが、1990年代日本の「失われた
10年」の下に再考されるべきであるという[11]。経済危機における金融危機の役割は世界金融危機 (2007年-)に関する活発な議論で扱わ
れている。世界金融危機 (2007年-)の原因を参照。
異説
世界恐慌初期の取り付け騒ぎ時にニュー
ヨークのアメリカ連合銀行に集まった群衆
オーストリア学派
世界恐慌は1920年代の連邦準備制度の金融政策の避けられない結果だったとオーストリア経済学派は主張している。彼らの意見では、
この中央銀行の政策は持続不可能な信用によるにわか景気をもたらす「安直な信用政策」であった。オーストリア学派の考えでは、この
時期のマネーサプライのインフレが資産価値(有価証券)と資本財の両者において持続不可能なバブルを引き起こしたという。連邦準備
制度が1928年に遅れて金融引き締めを行うまでには、深刻な経済後退を避けるには手遅れになっていた[12]。1929年の大暴落の後の政
府の介入によって市場の調節が遅れ、完全な回復がより困難になる道が開かれたとオーストリア学派は主張している[13]。
世界恐慌の主原因に関するオーストリア学派の説明を受け入れることはマネタリストの説明の否定を受け入れることと両立する。『アメリ
カの世界恐慌』(1963年)の著者でオーストリア経済学派のマリー・ロスバードはマネタリストの説明を否定している。中央銀行はマネーサ
プライを十分に増やすのに失敗したのだというミルトン・フリードマンの主張をロスバードは批判し、代わりに、1932年に連邦準備制度が
11億ドルの米国債を買い入れて所有国債量を18億ドルとした際、連邦準備制度はインフレ政策を追求していたのだと主張する。中央銀
行の政策に反してデフレが深刻化したのは「マネーサプライ総量が30億ドルに達したのに（民間）銀行の準備金の総量は2億1200万ドル
に留まった」ためであり、これはアメリカの大衆が銀行組織に不信感を抱いてさらに多くの預金を銀行から引き出し退蔵したという、中央
銀行の制御を大きく超える理由によるものだと彼は主張する。ロスバードの主張によると、銀行に対する取付のおそれの為に地銀は準
備金の貸し出しにさらに消極的になり、このために連邦準備制度がインフレを起こせなかったという[14]ことになる。
ロスバードがマネタリストの説明を批判したことに対して、もう一人の卓越したオーストリア経済学派のメンバーフリードリヒ・ハイエクは反
対した。ハイエクは、自身が1930年に中央銀行のデフレ政策に反対しなかったことが誤っていたと1975年に認め、曖昧な態度をとったこ
とに関して釈明した: 「当時私は、幾分短い期間におけるデフレの過程は、(経済が機能することと両立不可能だと私が考えていたところ
の)賃金の硬直性を破壊するものだと考えていた[15]。」 1978年には彼は「一たび急落が起こると連邦準備制度は愚かなデフレ政策を追
求するようになるということに関してミルトン・フリードマンに賛成する」と述べてマネタリストの見解に賛成し、デフレに反対してインフレに
賛成することを明らかにした[16]。この流れを汲んで、マネーサプライの強い引き締めを許すような金融政策とハイエクの景気循環理論は
矛盾すると経済学者のローレンス・H・ホワイトが主張している。
マルクス主義
「資本主義#マルクス学派」も参照
マルクス主義者は概して、資本主義モデルに固有の不安定性が世界恐慌を引き起こしたのだと主張する[17]。
原因に関する個々の理論
負債デフレ
詳細は「負債デフレ」を参照
アメリカ合衆国のGDPに対する負債の割合は世界恐慌の時までには300%に達した。この
割合は20世紀終わりまで越えられることはなかった[18]。
ジェローム(1934年)は戦間期の産業の大発展を可能にした財政状態に関する原典不明の
引用をしている:
恐らく未だかつてこの国でこれほどの量の国債がこれほど低い利率、これほど長い
期間にわたって出されたことはなかった[19]。
さらに、スタンダード・スタティスティックス社による60度の国債の指数が1923年の4.98%から
4.47%になった際には新たな資本発行の量が1922年から1929年の年平均から7.7%増加し
たとジェロームは述べている。
1920年代には特にフロリダ州で不動産・住宅のバブルが起こったが1925年に破裂した。
1920年代の住宅建設は人口増加の勢いを25%上回っていたとアルヴィン・ハンセンが述べている[20]。参照:1920年代フロリダの土地バブ
ル
アーヴィング・フィッシャーは、世界恐慌を引き起こした主原因は負債過多とデフレだと主張した。フィッシャーは信用の低下を負債過多と
結びつけ、負債過多が投機熱と資産バブルを刺激したのだとしている[21]。負債・デフレという状況下で相互作用し、バブルが起こり崩壊
する仕組みを作りだした九つの要因を彼は概説している。それら先行する出来事の連鎖は以下:
1. 負債の流動化と占有権の売却
2. 銀行ローンとしてのマネーサプライの緊縮が清算される
3. 資産価格水準の低下
4. 全体としての商業価値の深刻な低下、突然の破産
5. 利益の低下
6. 商業・雇用における生産量の低下
7. 信用の減少とペシミズム
8. お金の死蔵
9. 名目金利の低下と利率にあわせたデフレの拡大[21]
ウォール街大暴落後にウォール街に群がる
群衆
世界恐慌に先行する1929年の急落の際、証拠金規定額は10%にすぎなかった[22]。つまり、
株式仲売業者は投資社が1ドル預けるごとに9ドル貸し付けた。市場が急落した際、業者は
こうしたローンを回収しようとしたが、それは返ってくることはなかった。債務者が債務不履
行を起こし、預金者が一斉に預金を回収しようとすることで取り付け騒ぎが起こり、銀行が
倒産し始めた。こうした騒ぎを食い止めるための政府の保証や連邦準備制度による銀行の
規制は効果がないか使われなかった。銀行の破産により数十億ドルの資産が失われた
[23]。
物価と収入が20-50%減少しているのに負債は同価格であるため、未払いの負債が重くのし
かかった。1929年の混乱の後、1930年最初の10か月間に744のアメリカ合衆国の銀行が破
産した(1930年代には全部で9000ほどの銀行が破産した)。1933年4月までに、3月の銀行の
法定休日の後に無資格の預金や破産した銀行の70億ドルの預金が凍結された[24]。
絶望した銀行家が、借り手が返すお金・時間を持てないほどの勢いで貸付金の回収を行う
とともに銀行の倒産が連鎖的に起こった。予測利益が低いものであったため、資本投資や
建築が停滞した。不良債権や将来の見通しの悪化に直面し、生きのこった銀行は貸付によ
り消極的になった[23]。銀行は基本準備金を増加させるとともに貸し付けを減らし、これに
よってデフレ圧を強めた。悪しき循環が進み、下降スパイラルが増加した。
負債の流動化は自身が引き起こした物価の下降を食い止められなかった。自身の資産を
流動させようという大衆の衝動的行動の大局的効果によってデフレが加速し、資産量減衰
の価値に影響した。自身の負債を減らそうとする個々人の努力こそが事実上それを増大さ
せていた。逆説的だが、負債者が払えば払うほど、彼らは負債を多く抱えることになった
[21]。この自己悪化の過程が1930年の不景気を1933年の世界恐慌へ変えた。
連邦準備銀行の総裁ベン・バーナンキのようなマクロ経済学者がフィッシャーに由来する世界恐慌の負債デフレ説を復活させた[25][26]。
負債以外の原因によるデフレ
負債デフレに加えて、19世紀最後の四半世紀の大デフレ以降に起こった生産性デフレの構成要素が存在した[27] 。第一次世界大戦に
よって起こったインフレを強める補正もおそらく継続していた。
48州で見つかった中でも最大の油田、東テキサス油田が操業して、1930年代には原油価格が歴代最安値に達していた。原油市場にお
ける過剰供給のため価格は10セント/バレルにまで低下していた[28]。参照: 世界恐慌の原因#生産に対する衝撃
生産に対する衝撃
20世紀最初の30年には資本投資と経済生産高が電化・大量生産・輸送機関の電動化・農業の機械化とともに湧き起こり、生産性の急速
な増加により、多くの工場の閉鎖や物価の下落とともに余剰生産能力の増大が見られた[19][29]。結果として、世界恐慌の前の10年には
一週の労働時間が僅かに減少していた[30][31][32]。世界恐慌によってさらに多くの工場が閉鎖した[19]。
「我々の述べる[生産性、生産高、雇用の]傾向が1929年以前に完全に明白だったことをあまり極端に強調することはできな
い。この傾向はこの恐慌の結果では決してないし、世界大戦の結果でもない。そうではなくて、この恐慌はこういった長期に
わたる傾向の結果起こった崩壊なのである[33]。」マリオン・キング・ヒューバート
全米経済研究所の援助により出版されたジェローム『産業の機械化』(1934年)には、機械化が生産高を増大させる傾向を持つのか労働
力を解雇する傾向を持つのかは生産物の要求の弾力性に依存すると述べられている[19]。また、生産コスト現象は必ずしも消費者に還元
されない。さらに、第一次世界大戦以降ウマやラバが非動物の動力に取って代わられるとともに家畜飼料の需要が減少して農業は不利
な影響を被ったと述べられている。「技術的失業」という術語は世界恐慌時の労働環境を表すのに使われるとも『産業の機械化』に記さ
れている[19]。
「戦間期アメリカ合衆国の特徴である失業の増大の幾分かは非弾力的需要に応じた商品を生産する産業の機械化が原因
であるといえるだろう[19]。」フレデリック・C・ウェルズ、1934年
1923年の景気循環の頂点からしばらく後、過剰な労働者が雇用創生と比較して生産性発展により取って代わられており、1925年以降の
失業の拡大を引き起こした[34][29]。
アメリカ合衆国の主要産業の生産性の劇的な拡大とその生産品、賃金、労働時間に対する影響が、ブルッキングス研究所の支援により
出版された書籍の中で議論されている。[27]
肥料、機械化、品種改良を通じた生産性ショックこそが農産物価格の低下を引き起こしたのだとジョセフ・スティグリッツとブルース・グリー
ンウォルドが主張した。農家は過剰な労働力供給を加えた土地に押し込められていたのだという[35]。
農産物価格は第一次世界大戦後に低下し始めた。結果的に多くの農家が商売として農業を成り立たせられなくなり、数百の小規模な地
銀の倒産を招いた。トラクター、肥料、雑種トウモロコシによる農業生産性は問題の一部にすぎなかった; 他の問題とはウマ・ラバから内
燃力輸送機関への転換であった。ウマ・ラバの数は第一次世界大戦以降減少し始め、家畜飼料を生産していた大量の土地が余るように
なった[19][36]。
自動車・バスが電車の発展を止めるようになった[37]。
富と収入の不均衡
ウォディル・キャッチングズ、ウィリアム・トゥルファント・フォスター、レックスフォード・タグウェル、アドルフ・バール(、そして後にはジョン・ケ
ネス・ガルブレイス)といった経済学者はフランクリン・ルーズベルトに幾分かの影響を与えた理論を普及させた[38]。その理論とは、経済
が、消費者に十分な収入がないにもかかわらず、消費者が購入できる以上の商品を生産してしまった、というものである[39][40][41]。この説
によれば、1920年代の賃金の上昇率は生産性の上昇率を下回っていたのである。生産性が増大したことによる恩恵のほとんどは利潤と
なってしまい、それは株式市場バブルを引き起こしたものの、消費者の購買行動には繋がらなかった。このように、1920年代を通じて富
が不平等に分配されたことが世界恐慌を引き起こしたという。
この説によれば、世界恐慌の根本的な原因は、独立企業による賃金・収入の水準が十分な購買力を生み出すに達していないにもかか
わらず行われた世界的な過剰投資である。また、政府は富裕層に対する課税を重くすることで収入をより平等にすべきだった、と主張さ
れる。政府は、歳入の増加を利用して公共事業を行って雇用を増加させることで経済を「蹴って始動」させられた、という。だがアメリカ合
衆国では1932年まで、これとは正反対の経済政策が行われていたのである。大統領退任前年のハーバート・フーヴァーに紹介されフラ
ンクリン・ルーズベルトによって採用されることになった<1932年歳入法>や公共事業計画が、購買力をある程度再分配することに成功し
たのである[42][43]。
金本位制
世界恐慌の金本位制理論によれば、恐慌の原因は主に、第一次世界大戦後の西側諸国が戦前の値段に基づく金本位制に復帰しようと
したことにである。この説によれば、これによって金融政策がデフレ志向になり10年間にわたってヨーロッパの多くの国の経済の健全性を
害し続けたという。
この戦後政策に先駆けてインフレ政策がとられていた第一次世界大戦中には、多くのヨーロッパ諸国は戦費の激増により金本位制を廃
止せざるを得なかった。この結果、新しく作られた金の供給がインフレを中和させる生産性への投資ではなく戦費に使われたため、インフ
レが起こった。この説は、大量に導入された金の量によってインフレ率が決まり、それゆえインフレへ導くことが、破壊的・消費的であって
経済成長を導かない目的のために造られた新貨幣の総量を減少させるというものである。
戦後アメリカやヨーロッパ諸国が金本位制に復帰した際、多くの国は戦前の水準の金-通貨レートをとった。例えばイギリスでは1925年に
金本位法が国会を通過し、これによって金本位制に復帰した際、当時外国為替市場で戦前よりもずっと低い価格でポンドが取引されて
いたにもかかわらずスターリング・ポンドを戦前と等価に設定するという致命的な決定を行った。当時ジョン・メイナード・ケインズらは、政
府はそうすることによって釣り合いが取れていないような賃金再設定を強いているのだと主張してこの決定を批判した。ウィンストン・
チャーチルが金本位制に復帰させたことに対するケインズの批判はこれを暗にヴェルサイユ条約の結果と比較するものであった。
戦前と等価にしようという傾向が生まれた理由として一つは、デフレは危険ではないのに対してインフレは、特にヴァイマール共和国に見
られるインフレは耐え難い危険であるという当時優勢であった意見があった。もう一つの理由として、額面価額で貸し付けている者は自
身が貸し付けたのと同価値の金を回復できる期待があったというものがある[citation needed]。フランスに支払わなければならない巨額
の賠償金を支払うための外貨を獲得するのに十分な商品を輸出・販売するために、ドイツは信用を犠牲にした成長の時代に入った。世
界の金の溜まる場所としてのアメリカ合衆国はドイツがフランスに償還するための基盤として産業化するための資金を貸し付け、フランス
はイギリスおよびアメリカに償還した。この流れはドーズ案に明文化された。
非常に高利の借金をして再融資もできない状態にあるか、低利率ではないときに資本財に融資するための貸し付けに依存している場
合、農業のような産業分野にとってデフレは辛いものとなりうる。負債の実質的価値が増加しているのに対して物価はデフレに浸食され
ていく。資産を現金で保持している者や、資産を投資・購買に充てたり資金を貸し付けたりしようとしている者にとってはデフレは有益であ
る。
ピーター・テミン、ベン・バーナンキ、バリー・アイケングリーンといった経済学者によるより近年の研究は、世界恐慌時に緊縮政策がとら
れていたことに着目している。この考え方によれば、戦間期の金本位制下での緊縮は最初の経済的ショックを拡大し、恐慌を食い止める
あらゆる行動に対して大きな障害となったという。彼らによれば、最初の不安定化させる衝撃はアメリカ合衆国のウォール街大暴落に起
因するが、外国に問題を伝播させたのは金本位制であるという[44]。
彼らの出した結論によると、危機の時代の政策決定者たちは金融政策・財政政策を緩和しようとしたが、そのような行動が、契約上の率
で金を交換する義務を維持する国家の能力を脅かしたという。外国の資産を金で買おうとする国際的投資家を引き付けるために、金本
位制は高利率を維持することを要求する。そのため、金本位制を廃止しない限り、政府は景気の急落にも手をこまねいているほかない。
金本位制をとる全ての国の交換比率を修正することで、外国為替市場が利率の平衡を保つ事だけは保証される。恐慌が悪化すると多く
の国が金本位制を廃止し始め、より早く廃止した国々はより少なくデフレの影響を受けてより早くデフレから回復する傾向があった[45]。
自由銀行制派経済学者にしてミルトン・フリードマンの弟子のリチャード・ティンバーレイクは自身の立場を『アメリカ合衆国の金融政策に
みられる金本位制と実質手形原理』で明確に説明したが、この論文での彼の主張によると、連邦準備制度は実は金本位制化においてか
なりの余裕を持っており、そのことがニューヨーク連邦準備銀行総裁ベンジャミン・ストロングによる1923年から1928年の物価安定政策に
よって証明されたという。しかし1928年後半にストロングが没すると、ニューヨーク連邦準備銀行の支配権を引き継いだ派閥が、全ての金
は実際の商品によって代表されなければならないという実質手形原理を唱道した。ドルに30%のデフレを強いて当然合衆国経済に損害
を与えたこの政策は恣意的で、避けられるものであって、金本位制はこれなしに存続できたとティンバーレイクが述べている:
金の管理におけるこの移行は決定的であった。ストロングは前任者に従って金本位制という足かせに頓着せずに物価安定政策を
実行し、実質手形原理の支持者は自身の理想とする政策を実行する上で同様に束縛を受けずに済んだ。1928年-1929年のシステ
ムポリシーは結果的に物価安定から受動的な実質手形に移行した。「この」金本位制はそれが再出現するのに好都合な時を待つ
形式的な見せ掛けでしかない場所で残存した[46]。
金融機関の構造
経済史家(特にフリードマンとシュウォーツ)が多くの銀行が倒産したことの重要性を強調する。倒産は主にアメリカの地方で起こった。地
域経済の構造的な脆弱性によって地銀が非常に貧弱になっていたのである。農家は既に多額の負債を抱えており、1920年代に農場価
格が急落するのと負債の予想実質比率が跳ね上がるのとを目にした。
ニューヨーク株価指数
彼らの土地は(1919年の地価バブルの結果として)過剰に法的義務
を負わされており、穀物の価格が低いために彼らは所有物を売り
払うことを強いられた。小銀行、特に農業経済と結びついた小銀行
は1920年代には突然の実質利率の上昇による顧客の債務不履行
のために常に危機的状況にあった; こういった小銀行の間には20
年代を通じて既に倒産の波が押し寄せていたのである。
都銀もまたショックへの弱さをもたらす構造的脆弱性に苦しんでい
た。国内最大の銀行の中には適量の準備金を保持せずに、株式市
場で大量の投資を行ったりリスクの高い貸し付けを行ったりするも
のもあった。ニューヨーク市銀によるドイツやラテンアメリカへの貸し
付けは特に高リスクであった。つまり、銀行機構は大不景気の
ショックを低減するように十分に準備されていなかったのである。
ウォール街大暴落に関する事実をどれだけ特定できるか経済学
者・歴史家が議論している。時期は明らかである。; 将来の利益に
対する期待への衝撃は甚大であった。1928年-1929年の市場はファ
ンダメンタルズによって定められたよりも極端に物価が高い「バブ
ル」であったとほとんどのアナリストが考えている。そのことに何らかの点で責任があるが、どれだけ責任があるかを推量することはでき
ないと経済学者たちは認めている。「1929年の株式市場の崩壊が最初の不景気に役割を果たしたことは片時も疑えない[47]」とミルトン・
フリードマンが結論付けている。
議論は三つのグループに分かれている: 最初のグループは、急落が将来の予想の劇的な低下と大量の資本投資の撤退とによって恐慌
を引き起こしたと述べる; 第二のグループは、1929年夏に景気がずり落ちて急落がそれを追認したと述べる; 第三のグループは、どちら
のシナリオにおいても急落は不景気を引き起こす以上のことはなしえないと述べる。市場は1930年4月には一旦回復したが、それ以降物
価は再び下がり続け、1932年7月にやっと最終的な底値に達した。これはどう計ってもアメリカ合衆国で最長期間の市場の衰退である。
1930年の不景気から1931年-1932年の大恐慌への遷移の為に、全く異なる要因が役割を果たしたのである[48]。
保護貿易主義
スムート・ホーリー法にみられるような保護貿易主義は、保護貿易主義政策をとってその結果近隣窮乏化政策に至った国々とともに、世
界恐慌の原因としてしばしば挙げられる[49][50]。スムート・ホーリー法は農家の債務不履行を招いており、特に農業に対して有害であっ
た。この出来事により中西部や西部での取り付けが起こったか悪化したかして、その結果銀行機構が崩壊した。1000人以上の経済学者
が署名した嘆願書が連邦政府に提出され、その嘆願書中でスムート・ホーリー法が経済に壊滅的な影響をもたらすという警告がなされ
た; しかし、これによってスムート・ホーリー法の議会通過が覆ることはなかった。
変動相場制ではなく金本位制をとる国で保護貿易主義が採用されたことを鑑み、保護貿易主義は恐慌の原因ではなく恐慌に対する「反
応」であったと主張する経済学者もいる[50]: 金本位制をとる国々は利率を切り下げたり最後の貸し手となったりすることができなかった、
というのはそれらの国々はいずれ金を切らすが、金本位制を取らない国々は利率を切り下げて不換紙幣を印刷することができるからで
ある。この解釈の下では、保護貿易主義は、金融政策が金本位制に縛られている国々の貿易条件を変化させるのに一役買ったといえ
る。
国際的な債権構造
1918年に終戦を迎えると、ヨーロッパの国でアメリカ合衆国と提携している国は全てアメリカの銀行から多額の借金をし、その借金の総
額はそれらの国々の大戦で蕩尽された国庫では支払いきれないほどになった。これが、連合国がドイツやオーストリア・ハンガリーに対し
て(ウッドロウ・ウィルソンを驚嘆させたほどの)賠償金を要求した理由の一つである。連合国の信ずるところによれば、賠償金のおかげで
連合国は負債を清算する目途がたつはずだった。しかし、ドイツとオーストリア・ハンガリー自身が戦後に深刻な経済危機に陥っていた;
連合国が負債を支払えない以上にドイツとオーストリア・ハンガリーが賠償金を支払えないという状況であった。
債務国は1920年代にアメリカ合衆国に負債の免除か少なくとも負債の軽減を行うことを強く要求した。対するアメリカ政府はその要求を
拒否した。代わりに、アメリカの銀行が欧州諸国に対して大規模な貸し付けを始めた。そのため、負債(と賠償金)は古い負債を増額させ
て新しい負債を積み重ねることによってのみ支払われる。1920年代後半には、特にアメリカ経済が1929年以降に弱体化してからは、欧
州諸国がアメリカからさらに金を借りるのが困難になった。同時に、アメリカの高い関税によって、欧州諸国が商品をアメリカ市場で売る
のが非常に困難になった。借金を払い戻すために貿易によって収入を得ることもできず、欧州諸国は債務不履行を起こし始めた。
1920年代後半になると、ヨーロッパのアメリカに対する商品需要は減少し始めた。これは、ヨーロッパの産業・農業の生産性が増したから
というのもあるし、いくつかの欧州諸国(最も顕著なのはヴァイマル共和制下のドイツ)が深刻な経済危機にあえいでいて外国の商品を買
う余裕がなかったからというのもある。しかし、1920年代後半にヨーロッパ経済を不安定化させた主原因は、第一次世界大戦の余波の中
で起きた国際的債権構造である。
スムート・ホーリー法のような関税障壁によって戦争負債の支払いが致命的に妨害された。アメリカ合衆国の高関税の結果、ある種の循
環のみによって賠償金や戦争支払いのf続行がなされた。1920年代に、かつての連合国は主にドイツの賠償金支払いによって得られた
資金によって戦争負債を分割支払いし、ドイツはアメリカ合衆国とイギリスからの私的な借金によってのみ支払うことができた。同様に、
アメリカが海外に投資したドルのみによって諸外国がアメリカの輸出品を購入することができた。
1929年の株式市場急落に続く流動性の奪い合いの中、ヨーロッパからアメリカへ資金が回収され、ヨーロッパの脆弱な経済が砕け散っ
た。
1931年までに、世界は近現代で最悪の恐慌によってがたつき、賠償金や戦争負債の構造全体が崩壊した。
10億固定ドル価による1920年-1940年のアメリカ合衆国の年毎
のGDPと長期間の趨勢
集団動力学
1939年に、著名な経済学者アルヴィン・ハンセンが恐慌と連動して人口増加率が減少すると主張した[51]。同じ説が1978年の雑誌記事で
マニトバ大学の経済学者クラレンス・バーバーによって主張された。一種のハロッド・ドーマーモデルを用いて世界恐慌を分析し、彼はこう
述べている:
「このモデルでは、ハロッドの自然成長率の減少を生み出す状況に、より具体的には人口増加率、労働力増加率、生産性・技術発
展性の増加率が正当な成長率以下にまで減少している中に、深刻な恐慌の起源を探ることになる[52]。
1920年代の「生産性成長率」の減少の「はっきりした証拠はない」が、同時期の人口増加率現象の「はっきりした証拠」はあるとバーバー
は述べている。深刻な恐慌を引き起こすうえで十分重要な「自然成長率」の減少は人口増加率現象によって起きたのであろうと彼は述べ
ている[52]。
バーバーは、おそらく人口増加率の減少が住宅需要に影響したのだろうと述べ、これが1920年代に起こったことと見受けられると主張し
ている。かれはこう結論している:
「農家以外の家庭の急速で非常に大規模な増加率減少こそが明らかに、1926年以降のアメリカ合衆国の住宅建築界に起こったこ
とである。そしてこの減少が、ボルチとピルグリムが主張し続けているように、1929年の都心の大恐慌への転換の最も重要な一要
因なのであろう[53]。」
1920年代の人口増加率現象の原因の中には1910年以降の出産率低下[54]や移民の減少がある。移民の減少は主に1920年代に大幅な
移民抑制策がとられたことにある。1921年に緊急移民制限法が議会を通過し、続いて1924年移民法が制定された。
経済政策の役割
放任清算主義
今日の主流派経済学派の考えでは、政府は広く名目上の累計を安定した
成長傾向に留めておくよう努力すべきだった(新しい古典派やマネタリストに
とって、基準は名目マネーサプライである; ケインズ経済学派にとって、基
準は名目総需要それ自体である)。名目マネーストックと総名目需要を急落
しないよう保つために、恐慌期には、中央銀行は銀行機構に流動性を注入
するべきであり、政府は税率を切り下げ消費を促進すべきであった[55]。
連邦政府と連邦準備制度は1929年-1932年にこれを行わず、世界恐慌へと
陥った。経済史家の間で一般的になってきている説では、連邦準備制度の
政策決定者たちの清算主義理f論への執着が破滅的な結果を招いたとされ
る[56]。「清算主義」の存在が世界恐慌という宿痾と戦わない公共政策を決
定する動機づけをするうえで重要な役割を果たした。フーヴァー大統領はこ
う書いている:[57]
“ メロン財務長官に率いられた放任清算主義者たちが[...]政
府は手を出さずにスランプ自己清算するのに任せるべきだ
と感じている。メロン氏はたった一つの方策を持っている:
「労働を清算せよ、株式を清算せよ、農家を清算せよ、不動
産を清算せよ」[...]「それによってシステムから腐敗が排除
される。高額の生命、高い生命は低下する。人々はより働
き、より道徳的に生活するようになる。価値観が調節され、
人々を楽しませることが競争力に劣る人々の破滅を防ぐ。」”
「ケインジアン革命」以前は、このような清算主義理論が経済学者のとる一般的立場であり、フリードリヒ・ハイエク、ライオネル・ロビン
ズ、ヨーゼフ・シュンペーター、シーモア・ハリスといった経済学者によってこの理論が主張・発展させられた[58]。清算主義者によれば恐慌
は良薬である。恐慌の機能は、非生産的な使用から生産の要因(資本と労働)を解放するために、技術的発展のために時代遅れとなり失
敗した投資・ビジネスを清算することだとされた。それらの要因は技術的に活発な経済分野に回された。彼らは1920年-1921年の恐慌に
言及して、この恐慌は1920年代後半の繁栄の基礎を築いたと主張した。彼らは(1921年に既に実行されていた)デフレ政策をとることを要
求し、この政策は資本・労働力を非生産的な活動から解放して新たな経済的バブルの基礎を築くのに使うものだと主張した。経済の自己
調節が大量の倒産を起こすとしても、そうなるのに任せておくべきだと清算主義者たちは主張した[59]。というのは、聖餐過程を延期するこ
とは徒に社会的コストを増大させるだけだと彼らが考えていたからである。シュンペーターの著作によれば、それは[60]
“ [...]回復は、ひとりでに起こったときにのみ健全であると私たちに信じさせてくれる。人工的な刺激のみによるいかなる復
活も、十分に恐慌の働きが行き届かない部分を残し、環境不適応だった部分が消化され切らずに残った部分に対してそ
れ自体の新たな環境不適応が加えられ、それがまた生産を必要とするようになり、後々に別の[より悪い)危機によって商
業を脅かすのである。”
清算主義者の期待に反して、株式資本の大部分は世界恐慌一年目に転換・消去されなかった。オリヴィエ・ブランチャードとローレンス・
サマーズの研究によれば、1933年までに不景気によって1924年以前のレベルの資本蓄積が起こった[61]。
ジョン・メイナード・ケインズやミルトン・フリードマンといった経済学者は、清算主義理論から帰結する放置策が世界恐慌の深刻化に資し
たと主張している[62]。ケインズは嘲笑のレトリックによって、ハイエク、ロビンズ、シュンペーターを以下のように表すことで清算主義思想
の信用を失わせようとした。
“ [...]禁欲的・清教徒的な心根が[世界恐慌を][...]彼らの言うところの「過膨張」にたいする不可避にして望ましい報いとして
扱う[...]。それは、過剰な繁栄が続く全体的な倒産によってバランスがとられなかったときに、不正な富に対して起こる勝
利だと彼らは感じている。自分たちが丁重にも「延期された清算」と呼ぶものが自分たちを正してくれることを望むと彼ら
は述べている。彼らが我々に述べるところによると、清算は未だ完了していない。しかしやがては完了する。そして清算
が完了するのに十分な時間がたてば、全ては再び我々にとって良くなる[...]
”
ミルトン・フリードマンは、こういった「危険なナンセンス」はシカゴ大学では決して教えられていないこと、なぜ(このナンセンスが教えられ
ている)ハーヴァードで若く明敏な経済学者達が自分たちの師のマクロ経済学を否定してケインジアンに転向するのかを自分は分かって
いること、を述べた[63]。彼はこう書いている:
“ 私が思うにオーストリア学派の景気循環理論は世界に大きな悪影響をもたらした。あなたがキー・ポイントたる1930年代
に戻れば、ロンドンにオーストリア学派がはびこっているのが見られて、ハイエクやライオネル・ロビンズに世界が景気の
底にあるのを放置しろと言われるだろう。あなたはそれに従って景気が自己回復するに任せることになるだろう。それに
対して何かをすることは許されない。何をしてもより悪くなるだけなのだから。[...]私が思うにこの種の放置策に焚き付けら
れて、イギリスでもアメリカでも彼らは害を為したのである[64]。”
経済学者ローレンス・H・ホワイトは、ハイエクとロビンズが1930年代初期のデフレ政策に積極的には反対しなかったことを認めたが、そ
れにも関わらず、ハイエクが清算主義の唱道者であったというミルトン・フリードマン、ジェームズ・ブラッドフォード・デロングその他の主張
に挑戦した。ハイエクとロビンズの景気循環理論(後に今日知られているようなオーストリア景気循環理論に発展する)は実はマネーサプ
ライの強い引き締めを許すような金融政策とは矛盾するものだったとホワイトは主張する。それにもかかわらず、世界恐慌の際にはハイ
エクは「1929年-1932年の強いデフレと名目収入の萎縮に曖昧な態度をとった[65]」とホワイトは述べている。1975年の講話で、ハイエクは
自身が40年以上前に中央銀行のデフレ政策に反対しなかったことの非を認め、曖昧な理由をとったことの理由を説明した: 「当時私はあ
る程度短期間のデフレの過程は、経済が機能することと相容れないと私が考えていた賃金の硬直性を破壊すると信じていた[66]。」その
三年後、ハイエクは世界恐慌初期の連邦の突然のマネーサプライの引き締めと連邦が銀行に流動性を供給するのに失敗したことを強く
批判した:
“ 「一たび急落が起こると連邦準備制度が愚かなデフレ政策に走ったという点に関して私はミルトン・フリードマンに同意す
る。私は単にインフレに反対しているのではなく、デフレにも反対している。だから、もう一度、間違って計画された金融政
策が恐慌を引き延ばす[67]。”
オーストリア学派の政府膨張論
消費の増大
フーヴァーが連邦政府の消費を50%引き上げたのは効果的だった。ほとんどの増大が1932年に起こり、それに同調して長い不景気が
ゆっくりと終わりを迎えた。オーストリア経済学派の中でも自由銀行制派に属する経済学者スティーヴン・ホーウィッツは、短い不景気だっ
たはずのものを長引かせて「大恐慌」にしてしまったとしてフーヴァーの消費を責めている:
短い不景気に終わるはずだったものを、より深刻で、ずっと長い大恐慌に変えてしまったという批判をハーヴァート・フーヴァーはう
まく捌いている[...]彼は恐慌と戦うために政府の役割を大きく拡張した[...]その結果は、不幸なことに(しかし驚くべきことではなく)、
火と上手く戦ったというよりもむしろ炎を煽った[68]。
デイヴィッド・ワインバーガーは、このアプローチを、ウィルソンの強い連邦政府が引き起こした恐慌の下で経済を劇的に刺激したと彼が
述べた(正当なチャートにおいても見られる)クーリッジ政権下の消費・税・赤字の切り下げと対比した[69]。クーリッジ政権の商務長官とし
てフーヴァーが消費増大とクーリッジの下での規制を奨励したが、多くの部分を1929年に彼自身が実行したことに彼は注目する[70]。GDP
に占める連邦の消費が成長し続けていたことを発見したランダル・グレゴリー・ホルコムが述べているように、フーヴァーの下でのこの大
成長はフーヴァーによる景気下降で歳入を減らしたとしても事実連邦準備制度の下で以上の事がなされたことは明らかだという[71]。
新たな公的規制
著書『アメリカの世界恐慌』、『ハーバート・フーヴァーの恐慌』その他において、マリー・ロスバードは、フーヴァーが示した産業・農業・雇
用といった分野における新たな連邦規制の一覧を提示したが、彼はそれを世界恐慌をもたらした連邦準備制度の干渉主義と結びつけて
述べた[72]。
税率の引き上げ
1932年にフーヴァーは歳入法を制定して税率を劇的に引き上げた。彼はあらゆる層に対する税を引き上げ、最貧困層に対する税を三倍
にして富裕層に対する税率を25%から63%に上げた[73][74]。この高率の税は会計年度であり長い不景気が終わった年に同調して支払わ
れた。
関連項目
◾ 政治哲学
◾ 世界恐慌のタイムライン
脚注
1. ^ Keen 2000, p.198.
2. ^ Paul Krugman, "Who Was Milton Friedman?" New York Review of
Books Volume 32, Number 32 · February 3, 2007 online community
(http://www.nybooks.com/articles/19857)
3. ^ Friedman 1965, p.4.
4. ^ The History of Economic Downturns in the US -- But Now You
Know.net (http://butnowyouknow.wordpress.com/those-who-fail-tolearn-
from-history/history-of-economic-downturns-in-the-us/)
5. ^ * Bruner, Robert F.; Carr, Sean D. (2007), The Panic of 1907:
Lessons Learned from the Market's Perfect Storm, Hoboken, New
Jersey: John Wiley & Sons, ISBN 978-0-470-15263-8
6. ^ Gold Standards and the Real Bills Doctrine in US Monetary Policy,
Richard H Timberlake, published in Econ Journal Watch, August
2005 --
http://www.econjournalwatch.org/pdf/TimberlakeIntellectualTyrannyAugust2005.pdf
7. ^ Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar
publishing, 2003, ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 11
8. ^ Ben Bernanke, "Non-monetary effects of the financial crisis in the
propagation of the Great Depression", (1983) American Economic
Review . Am 73#3 257–76.
9. ^ Friedman 2007, p.15.
10. ^ (Samuelson 1948, p. 353)
11. ^ Samuelson, Friedman, and monetary policy
(http://krugman.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/12/14/samuelson-friedmanand-
monetary-policy/), Paul Krugman, New York Times Blog,
December 14, 2009
12. ^ Murray Rothbard, America's Great Depression (Ludwig von Mises
Institute, 2000), pp. 159-163.
13. ^ Rothbard, America's Great Depression, pp. 19-21"
14. ^ Rothbard, A History of Money and Banking in the United States,
pp.293-294.
15. ^ White, Clash of Economic Ideas, p. 94. See alsoWhite, Lawrence
(2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?”.
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751–768.
doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x (http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%
2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
16. ^ F. A. Hayek, interviewed by Diego Pizano July, 1979 published in:
Diego Pizano, Conversations with Great Economists: Friedrich A.
Hayek, John Hicks, Nicholas Kaldor, Leonid V. Kantorovich, Joan
Robinson, Paul A.Samuelson, Jan Tinbergen (Jorge Pinto Books,
2009).
17. ^ http://www.marxists.org/archive/corey/1934/decline/index.html
18. ^ [1]
(http://www.johnmauldin.com/images/uploads/pdf/mwo071811.pdf)
Several graphs of total debt to GDP can be found on the Internet.
19. ^ a b c d e f g Jerome, Harry (1934). Mechanization in Industry,
National Bureau of Economic Research
20. ^ Hansen, Alvin (1939). “Economic Progress and Declining
Population Growth”. American Economic Review' 29 (March)
21. ^ a b c Fisher, Irving (October 1933). “The Debt-Deflation Theory of
Great Depressions”. Econometrica (The Econometric Society) 1 (4):
337–357. doi:10.2307/1907327 (http://dx.doi.org/10.2307%
2F1907327). JSTOR 1907327 (http://www.jstor.org/stable/1907327).
22. ^ Fortune, Peter (Sept-Oct, 2000). “Margin Requirements, Margin
Loans, and Margin Rates: Practice and Principles - analysis of history
of margin credit regulations - Statistical Data
Included” (http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m3937/is_2000_Sept-
Oct/ai_80855422/pg_3/?tag=content;col1). New England Economic
Review.
23. ^ a b “Bank Failures
(http://www.livinghistoryfarm.org/farminginthe30s/money_08.html)”.
Living History Farm. 2008年5月22日閲覧。
24. ^ "Friedman and Schwartz, Monetary History of the United States",
352
25. ^ Bernanke, Ben S (June 1983). “Non-Monetary Effects of the
Financial Crisis in the Propagation of the Great Depression”. The
American Economic Review (The American Economic Association)
73 (3): 257–276. JSTOR 1808111
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/1808111).
26. ^ Mishkin, Fredric (December 1978). “The Household Balance and
the Great Depression”. Journal of Economic History 38 (04): 918–37.
doi:10.1017/S0022050700087167 (http://dx.doi.org/10.1017%
2FS0022050700087167).
27. ^ a b Bell, Spurgeon (1940). Productivity, Wages and National
Income , The Institute of Economics of the Brookings Institution
28. ^ [|Yergin, Daniel
(https://www.cera.com/aspx/cda/public1/about/expertise/personPopup.aspx?
iAuthorPK=112)] (1992). The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money $
Power.
29. ^ a b Beaudreau, Bernard C. (1996). Mass Production, the Stock
Market Crash and the Great Depression. New York, Lincoln,
Shanghi: Authors Choice Press.
30. ^ “Hours of Work in U.S. History
(http://eh.net/encyclopedia/article/whaples.work.hours.us)” (2010年).
2012年8月28日閲覧。
31. ^ Whaples, Robert (1991, June). The Shortening of the American
Work Week: An Economic and Historical Analysis of Its Context,
Causes, and Consequences, The Journal of Economic History, Vol.
51, No. 2; pp. 454-457
32. ^ “Technological Change and Economic Growth the Interwar Years
and the 1990s (http://www.econ.yale.edu/seminars/echist/eh04/field-
041006.pdf)” (2004年). 2012年8月28日閲覧。
33. ^ Hubbert, M. King (1940).
http://www.scribd.com/doc/22289589/Man-Hours-and-Distribution-
M-King-Hubbert Man Hours and Distribution , Derived from Man
Hours: A Declining Quantity, Technocracy, Series A, No. 8, August
1936 (http://www.)
34. ^ Jerome, Harry (1934). Mechanization in Industry, National Bureau
of Economic Research<For the several industries studied industry
expansion offset most of the productivity gains that would otherwise
resulted in many more job losses than actually occurred. To prevent
rising unemployment the laid off workers would have to have
changed industries, but it was noted that even if workers were
successful at such a change the time typically took 18 months or
more. The employment statistics for the 1930 census reflect
conditions after the start of the depression so the actual employment
situation prior to the depression is unknown.>
35. ^ Stiglitz, Joseph (2011), “The Book of
Jobs” (http://www.vanityfair.com/politics/2012/01/stiglitzdepression-
201201), Vanity Fair 23/12/2011閲覧。
36. ^ Ayres, R. U.; Ayres, L. W.; Warr, B. (2002). Exergy, Power and
Work in the U. S. Economy 1900-1998, Insead’s Center For the
Management of Environmental Resources, 2002/52/EPS/CMER
(http://terra2000.free.fr/downloads/expowork.pdf)<Fig. 4 in
Appendix>From one-sixth to one-quarter of all land had been used to
grow animal feed.
37. ^ General Motors and the Decline of Streetcars
(http://debunkportland.com/printables/TQOrigin.pdf)
38. ^ David M. Kennedy, 'Freedom From Fear, The American People in
Depression and War 1929 - 1945, Oxford University Press, 1999,
ISBN 0-19-503834-7, p. 122, 123
39. ^ Dorfman,1959
40. ^ Allgoewer, Elisabeth (May 2002). “Underconsumption theories and
Keynesian economics. Interpretations of the Great
Depression” (http://www.vwa.unisg.ch/RePEc/usg/dp2002/dp0214allgoewer_ganz.pdf).
Discussion paper no. 2002-14.
41. ^ Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA
1890–1954, Hodder Education, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p.
108
42. ^ Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA
1890–1954, Hodder Education, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p.
108
43. ^ The Road to Plenty (1928)
44. ^ Eichengreen 1992, p.xi
45. ^ Bernanke 2002, p.80
46. ^ Gold Standards and the Real Bills Doctrine in U.S. Monetary
Policy, RICHARD H. TIMBERLAKE
http://www.econjournalwatch.org/pdf/TimberlakeIntellectualTyrannyAugust2005.pdf
47. ^ Parker, p.49.
48. ^ White, 1990.
49. ^ Protectionism and the Great Depression
(http://krugman.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/11/30/protectionism-andthe-
great-depression/), Paul Krugman, New York Times, November
30, 2009
50. ^ a b The protectionist temptation: Lessons from the Great Depression
for today (http://voxeu.org/index.php?q=node/3280), VOX, Barry
Eichengreen, Douglas Irwin, 17 March 2009
51. ^ Hansen, Alvin (1939). Economic Progress and Declining
Population Growth. ISBN 978-1162557823<Originally printed in a
journal. Reprinted 2004, 2010>
52. ^ a b Barber, Clarence L. "On the Origins of the Great Depression",
Southern Economic Journal, January, 1978, 44(3), pp. 432-456.
53. ^ Barber, Clarence L. "On the Origins of the Great Depression",
Southern Economic Journal, January 1978, 44(3), pp. 432-456. See
also Bolch, B. W. and J. D. Pilgrim, "A Reappraisal of Some Factors
Associated with Fluctuations in the United States in the Interwar
Period." Southern Economic Journal, January 1973, pp. 327-44.
54. ^ Longman, Philip (2004). The Empty Cradle: How Falling
Birthrates Threaten World Prosperity And What to Do About It.
p. 87. ISBN 0-465-05050-6.
55. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 1
56. ^ White, Lawrence (2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the
Great Depression?”. Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751
–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x
(http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
57. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 1
58. ^ Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar
publishing, 2003, ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 9
59. ^ Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar
publishing, 2003, ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 9
60. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 1
61. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 33
62. ^ White, Lawrence (2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the
Great Depression?”. Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751
–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x
(http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
63. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 1
64. ^ White, Lawrence (2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the
Great Depression?”. Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751
–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x
(http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
65. ^ Lawrence White, The Clash of Economic Ideas: The Great Policy
Debates and Experiments of the 20th Century (Cambridge University
Press), p. 94.
66. ^ White, Clash of Economic Ideas, p. 94. See alsoWhite, Lawrence
(2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?”.
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751–768.
doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x (http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%
2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
67. ^ F. A. Hayek, interviewed by Diego Pizano July, 1979 published in:
Diego Pizano, Conversations with Great Economists: Friedrich A.
Hayek, John Hicks, Nicholas Kaldor, Leonid V. Kantorovich, Joan
Robinson, Paul A.Samuelson, Jan Tinbergen (Jorge Pinto Books,
2009).
68. ^ Herbert Hoover, Father of the New Deal, by Steven Horwitz
http://www.cato.org/pubs/bp/bp122.pdf
69. ^ Does ‘Austerity’ Work? by David Weinberger
http://blog.heritage.org/2011/10/27/does-austerity-work/
70. ^ Lessons from Economic Recessions II- The Forgotten Recession of
1920 http://conservativehideout.com/wordpress/2011/07/05/lessonsfrom-
economic-recessions-ii-the-forgotten-recession-of-1920/
71. ^ The Growth of the Federal Government in the 1920s, Randall G.
Holcombe http://www.cato.org/pubs/journal/cj16n2-2.html
72. ^ Hoover's Attack on Laissez-Faire, by Murray Rothbard
http://mises.org/daily/2902#2
73. ^ The Concise Encyclopedia of Economics: The Great Depression
http://www.econlib.org/library/Enc/GreatDepression.html
74. ^ http://www.cato.org/pubs/bp/bp122.pdf
参考文献
◾ Secular Stagnation and Great Depression, R. L. Norman, Jr. (http://www.secularstagnation.com)
◾ Dorfman, Joseph (1959). Economic Mind in American Civilizationvol 4 and 5 cover the ideas of all American economists of 1918-
1933.
◾ Friedman, Milton and Anna Jacobson Schwartz, A Monetary History of the United States, 1867-1960 (1963)
◾ Keen, Steve 2001. Debunking Economics Pluto Press Australia Limited Sydney, Australia
◾ Meltzer, Allan H. 2003 A History of the Federal Reserve Volume I: 1913-1951 Chicago University Press, Chicago, IL
◾ Rothbard, Murray N. 1963 America's Great Depression D. Van Nostrand Company, Princeton, NJ
◾ Rothbard, Murray N. A History of Money and Banking in the United States: The Colonial Era to World War II (2002)
◾ Samuelson, Paul (1948). Economics.
◾ White, Eugene N. "The Stock Market Boom and Crash of 1929 Revisited" Journal of Economic Perspectives, Vol. 4, No. 2 (Spring,
1990), pp. 67–83; examines different theories
関連文献
世界
◾ Ambrosius, G. and W. Hibbard. A Social and Economic History of Twentieth-Century Europe (1989)
◾ Bordo, Michael, and Anna J. Schwartz, eds. A Retrospective on the Classical Gold Standard, 1821–1931 (1984) (National Bureau of
Economic Research Conference Report)
◾ Bordo, Michael et al. eds. The Gold Standard and Related Regimes: Collected Essays (1999)
◾ Brown, Ian. The Economies of Africa and Asia in the Inter-War Depression (1989)
◾ Davis, Joseph S. The World Between the Wars, 1919-39: An Economist's View (1974)
◾ Eichengreen, Barry. Golden Fetters: The Gold Standard and the Great Depression, 1919–1939 (NBER Series on Long-Term Factors
in Economic Development), 1996, ISBN 0-19-510113-8
◾ Eichengreen, Barry, and Marc Flandreau, eds. The Gold Standard in Theory and History (1997)
◾ Feinstein, Charles H. The European Economy Between the Wars (1997)
◾ Garraty, John A. The Great Depression: An Inquiry into the Causes, Course, and Consequences of the Worldwide Depression of the
Nineteen-Thirties, as Seen by Contemporaries and in Light of History (1986)
◾ Garraty, John A. Unemployment in History (1978)
◾ Garside, William R. Capitalism in Crisis: International Responses to the Great Depression (1993)
◾ Haberler, Gottfried. The World Economy, Money, and the Great Depression 1919-1939 (1976)
◾ Hall, Thomas E. and J. David Ferguson. The Great Depression: An International Disaster of Perverse Economic Policies (1998)
◾ Kaiser, David E. Economic Diplomacy and the Origins of the Second World War: Germany, Britain, France and Eastern Europe,
1930-1939 (1980)
◾ Kindleberger, Charles P. The World in Depression, 1929-1939 (1983);
◾ Tipton, F. and R. Aldrich. An Economic and Social History of Europe, 1890–1939 (1987)
◾ Barber, Clarence Lyle (University of Manitoba) "On the Origins of the Great Depression" (1978)
アメリカ合衆国
◾ Ben S. Bernanke. Essays on the Great Depression (2000)
◾ Bernstein, Michael A. The Great Depression: Delayed Recovery and Economic Change in America, 1929-1939 (1989) focus on lowgrowth
and high-growth industries
◾ Bordo, Michael D., Claudia Goldin, and Eugene N. White, eds. The Defining Moment: The Great Depression and the American
Economy in the Twentieth Century (1998). Advanced economic history.
◾ Chandler, Lester. America's Greatest Depression (1970). economic history overview.
◾ De Long, Bradford. Liquidation Cycles and the Great Depression (1991)
◾ Jensen, Richard J. "The Causes and Cures of Unemployment in the Great Depression," Journal of Interdisciplinary History 19 (1989)
553-83. online at JSTOR in most academic libraries
◾ McElvaine, Robert S. The Great Depression (2nd ed 1993) social history
◾ Mitchell, Broadus. Depression Decade: From New Era through New Deal, 1929-1941 (1964), standard economic history overview.
◾ Parker, Randall E. Reflections on the Great Depression (2002) interviews with 11 leading economists
◾ Salsman, Richard M. “The Cause and Consequences of the Great Depression” in The Intellectual Activist, ISSN 0730-2355. Mr.
Salsman argues that the Great Depression was fundamentally caused by statist government policy.
◾ Singleton, Jeff. The American Dole: Unemployment Relief and the Welfare State in the Great Depression (2000)
(http://www.questia.com/PM.qst?a=o&d=24419587)
◾ Warren, Harris Gaylord. Herbert Hoover and the Great Depression (1959).
連邦準備制度の役割
◾ Chandler, Lester V. American Monetary Policy, 1928-41. (1971).
◾ Epstein, Gerald and Thomas Ferguson. "Monetary Policy, Loan Liquidation and Industrial Conflict: Federal Reserve System Open
Market Operations in 1932." Journal of Economic History 44 (December 1984): 957-84. in JSTOR
◾ Kubik, Paul J., "Federal Reserve Policy during the Great Depression: The Impact of Interwar Attitudes regarding Consumption and
Consumer Credit." Journal of Economic Issues. Vo: 30. Issue: 3. Publication Year: 1996. pp 829+.
◾ Mayhew, Anne. "Ideology and the Great Depression: Monetary History Rewritten." Journal of Economic Issues 17 (June 1983): 353-
60.
◾ Meltzer, Allan H. A History of the Federal Reserve, Volume 1: 1913-1951 (2004) the standard scholarly history
◾ Steindl, Frank G. Monetary Interpretations of the Great Depression. (1995).
◾ Temin, Peter. Did Monetary Forces Cause the Great Depression? (1976).
◾ Wicker, Elmus R. "A Reconsideration of Federal Reserve Policy during the 1920-1921 Depression," Journal of Economic History
(1966) 26: 223-238, in JSTOR
◾ Wicker, Elmus. Federal Reserve Monetary Policy, 1917-33. (1966).
◾ Wells, Donald R. The Federal Reserve System: A History (2004)
◾ Wueschner, Silvano A. Charting Twentieth-Century Monetary Policy: Herbert Hoover and Benjamin Strong, 1917-1927 Greenwood
Press. (1999)
Template:GreatDepr nav
「https://ja.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=世界恐慌の原因&oldid=60902860」から取得
カテゴリ: 翻訳中途 - 2016年2月1920年代世界恐慌経済恐慌金本位制出来事の原因
◾ 最終更新 2016年8月25日 (木) 17:12 （日時は個人設定で未設定ならばUTC）。
◾ テキストはクリエイティブ・コモンズ表示-継承ライセンスの下で利用可能です。追加の条件が適用される場合があります。
詳細は利用規約を参照してください。
USA annual real GDP from 1910 to 1960, with the years of the Great
Depression (1929–39) highlighted
Money supply decreased a lot between Black Tuedsay and the Bank
Holiday in March 1933 when there was massive bank runs across the
United States.
Causes of the Great Depression
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
The causes of the Great Depression in the early 20th century have been extensively discussed
by economists and remain a matter of active debate. They are part of the larger debate about
economic crises.
The specific economic events that took place during the Great Depression have been studied
thoroughly: a deflation in asset and commodity prices, dramatic drops in demand and credit, and
disruption of trade, ultimately resulting in widespread unemployment (over 13 million people
were unemployed by 1932) and hence poverty. However, historians lack consensus in
determining the causal relationship between various events and the government economic policy
in causing or ameliorating the Depression. The initial stock market crash triggered a "panic selloff"
that made the stock market go even lower.
Although a common belief is that the Great Depression was triggered by the 1929 crash of the
stock market, the stock market in 1929 had reached record fundamental valuations in spite of
deteriorating economic conditions such as rising unemployment, overproduction (excess
capacity), underconsumption and high debt. The timing of the crash coincided with news that the
proposed import tariff on manufactured products was losing support in Congress.[1]
Current theories may be broadly classified into two main points of view and several heterodox
points of view.
First, there are demand-driven theories, from Keynesian and institutional economists who argue
that the depression was caused by a widespread loss of confidence that led to underconsumption.
The demand-driven theories argue that the financial crisis following the 1929 crash led to a
sudden and persistent reduction in consumption and investment spending.[2] Once panic and
deflation set in, many people believed they could avoid further losses by keeping clear of the
markets. Holding money therefore became profitable as prices dropped lower and a given amount
of money bought ever more goods, exacerbating the drop in demand.
Second, there are the monetarists, who believe that the Great Depression started as an ordinary
recession, but that significant policy mistakes by monetary authorities (especially the Federal
Reserve) caused a shrinking of the money supply which greatly exacerbated the economic
situation, causing a recession to descend into the Great Depression. Related to this explanation are those who point to debt deflation causing those who borrow to owe
ever more in real terms.
There are also various heterodox theories that reject the explanations of the Keynesians and monetarists. Some new classical macroeconomists have argued that
various labor market policies imposed at the start caused the length and severity of the Great Depression. The Austrian school of economics focuses on the
macroeconomic effects of money supply and how central banking decisions can lead to malinvestment. Marxian economists view the Great Depression, with all other
economic crises, as a symptom of the classism and instability inherent in the capitalist model.
Contents
◾ 1 General theoretical reasoning
◾ 1.1 Mainstream theories
◾ 1.1.1 Keynesian
◾ 1.1.2 Monetarist
◾ 1.1.3 Additional modern nonmonetary explanations
◾ 1.1.3.1 Debt deflation
◾ 1.1.3.2 Expectations hypothesis
◾ 1.2 Heterodox theories
◾ 1.2.1 Austrian School
◾ 1.2.2 Marxian
◾ 2 Specific theories of cause
◾ 2.1 Non-debt deflation
◾ 2.2 Productivity or technology shock
◾ 2.3 Disparities in wealth and income
◾ 2.4 Gold Standard system
◾ 2.5 Financial institution structures
◾ 2.6 Protectionism
◾ 2.7 International Debt Structure
◾ 2.8 Population dynamics
◾ 3 Role of economic policy
◾ 3.1 Calvin Coolidge (1923–29)
◾ 3.2 Leave-it-alone liquidationism (1929–33)
◾ 3.2.1 Overview
◾ 3.2.2 Criticism
◾ 3.3 Herbert Hoover (1929–33)
◾ 3.3.1 Economic policy
◾ 3.3.2 Federal spending
◾ 3.3.3 Tax policy
◾ 3.4 Franklin Delano Roosevelt (1933–45)
◾ 3.4.1 Arguments for key to recovery
◾ 3.4.2 Arguments for prolongation of the Great Depression
◾ 4 See also
◾ 5 Notes
◾ 6 References
The Great Depression in a monetary
view.
◾ 7 Further reading
◾ 7.1 World
◾ 7.2 United States
◾ 7.3 Role of the United States Federal Reserve
General theoretical reasoning
The two classical competing theories of the Great Depression are the Keynesian (demand-driven) and the monetarist explanation. There are also various heterodox
theories that downplay or reject the explanations of the Keynesians and monetarists.
Economists and economic historians are almost evenly split as to whether the traditional monetary explanation that monetary forces were the primary cause of the
Great Depression is right, or the traditional Keynesian explanation that a fall in autonomous spending, particularly investment, is the primary explanation for the
onset of the Great Depression.[3] Today the controversy is of lesser importance since there is mainstream support for the debt deflation theory and the expectations
hypothesis that building on the monetary explanation of Milton Friedman and Anna Schwartz add non-monetary explanations.
There is consensus that the Federal Reserve System should have cut short the process of monetary deflation and banking collapse. If the FED had done that the
economic downturn would have been far less severe and much shorter.[4]
Mainstream theories
Keynesian
In his book The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money (1936), British economist John Maynard Keynes introduced concepts that were intended to help
explain the Great Depression. He argued that there are reasons why the self-correcting mechanisms that many economists claimed should work during a downturn
might not work.
One argument for a non-interventionist policy during a recession was that if consumption fell due to savings, the savings would cause the rate of interest to fall.
According to the classical economists, lower interest rates would lead to increased investment spending and demand would remain constant. However, Keynes argues
that there are good reasons why investment does not necessarily increase in response to a fall in the interest rate. Businesses make investments based on expectations
of profit. Therefore, if a fall in consumption appears to be long-term, businesses analyzing trends will lower expectations of future sales. Therefore, the last thing they
are interested in doing is investing in increasing future production, even if lower interest rates make capital inexpensive. In that case, the economy can be thrown into
a general slump due to a decline in consumption.[5] According to Keynes, this self-reinforcing dynamic is what occurred to an extreme degree during the Depression,
where bankruptcies were common and investment, which requires a degree of optimism, was very unlikely to occur. This view is often characterized by economists
as being in opposition to Say's Law.
The idea that reduced capital investment was a cause of the depression is a central theme in Secular stagnation theory.
Keynes argued that if the national government spent more money to recover the money spent by consumers and business firms, unemployment rates would fall. The
solution was for the Federal Reserve System to “create new money for the national government to borrow and spend” and to cut taxes rather than raising them, in
order for consumers to spend more, and other beneficial factors.[6] Hoover chose to do the opposite of what Keynes thought to be the solution and allowed the federal
government to raise taxes exceedingly to reduce the budget shortage brought upon by the depression. Keynes proclaimed that more workers could be employed by
decreasing interest rates, encouraging firms to borrow more money and make more products. Employment would prevent the government from having to spend any
more money by increasing the amount at which consumers would spend. Keynes’ theory was then confirmed by the length of the Great Depression within the United
States and the constant unemployment rate. Employment rates began to rise in preparation for World War II by increasing government spending. “In light of these
developments, the Keynesian explanation of the Great Depression was increasingly accepted by economists, historians, and politicians”.[6]
Monetarist
In their 1963 book A Monetary History of the United States, 1867–1960, Milton Friedman and Anna Schwartz laid out their
case for a different explanation of the Great Depression. Essentially, the Great Depression, in their view, was caused by the
fall of the money supply. Friedman and Schwartz write: "From the cyclical peak in August 1929 to a cyclical trough in March
1933, the stock of money fell by over a third." The result was what Friedman calls the "Great Contraction" — a period of
falling income, prices, and employment caused by the choking effects of a restricted money supply. Friedman and Schwartz
argue that people wanted to hold more money than the Federal Reserve was supplying. As a result, people hoarded money by
consuming less. This caused a contraction in employment and production since prices were not flexible enough to
immediately fall. The Fed's failure was in not realizing what was happening and not taking corrective action.[7]
After the Depression, the primary explanations of it tended to ignore the importance of the money supply. However, in the
monetarist view, the Depression was “in fact a tragic testimonial to the importance of monetary forces.”[8] In their view, the
failure of the Federal Reserve to deal with the Depression was not a sign that monetary policy was impotent, but that the
Federal Reserve implemented the wrong policies. They did not claim the Fed caused the depression, only that it failed to use
policies that might have stopped a recession from turning into a depression.
The U.S. economy during this period went through a number of cycles of boom and bust. The depressions often seemed to be set off by bank panics, the most
significant occurring in 1873, 1893, 1901, 1907, and 1920.[9] Before the 1913 establishment of the Federal Reserve, the banking system had dealt with these crises in
the U.S. (such as in the Panic of 1907) by suspending the convertibility of deposits into currency. Starting in 1893, there were growing efforts by financial institutions
and business men to intervene during these crises, providing liquidity to banks that were suffering runs. During the banking panic of 1907, an ad-hoc coalition
assembled by J. P. Morgan successfully intervened in this way, thereby cutting off the panic, which was likely the reason why the depression that would normally
have followed a banking panic did not happen this time. A call by some for a government version of this solution resulted in the establishment of the Federal Reserve.
[10]
But in 1928–32, the Federal Reserve did not act to provide liquidity to banks suffering runs. In fact, its policy contributed to the banking crisis by permitting a sudden
contraction of the money supply. During the Roaring Twenties, the central bank had set as its primary goal "price stability", in part because the governor of the New
York Federal Reserve, Benjamin Strong, was a disciple of Irving Fisher, a tremendously popular economist who popularized stable prices as a monetary goal. It had
kept the number of dollars at such an amount that prices of goods in society appeared stable. In 1928, Strong died, and with his death this policy ended, to be replaced
with a real bills doctrine requiring that all currency or securities have material goods backing them. This policy permitted the US money supply to fall by over a third
from 1929 to 1933.[11]
Crowd at New York's American Union
Bank during a bank run early in the Great
Depression.
Crowd gathering on Wall Street after the
1929 crash.
When this money shortage caused runs on banks, the Fed maintained its true bills policy, refusing to lend money to the banks in the way that had cut short the 1907
panic, instead allowing each to suffer a catastrophic run and fail entirely. This policy resulted in a series of bank failures in which one-third of all banks vanished.[12]
According to Ben Bernanke, the subsequent credit crunches led to waves of bankruptcies.[13] Friedman said that if a policy similar to 1907 had been followed during
the banking panic at the end of 1930, perhaps this would have stopped the vicious circle of the forced liquidation of assets at depressed prices. Consequently, the
banking panics of 1931, 1932, and 1933 might not have happened, just as suspension of convertibility in 1893 and 1907 had quickly ended the liquidity crises at the
time.”[14]
Monetarist explanations had been rejected in Samuelson's work Economics, writing "Today few economists regard Federal Reserve monetary policy as a panacea for
controlling the business cycle. Purely monetary factors are considered to be as much symptoms as causes, albeit symptoms with aggravating effects that should not be
completely neglected."[15] According to Keynesian economist Paul Krugman, the work of Friedman and Schwartz became dominant among mainstream economists
by the 1980s but should be reconsidered in light of Japan's Lost Decade of the 1990s.[16] The role of monetary policy in financial crises is in active debate regarding
the 2007–12 global financial crisis; see Causes of the 2007–12 global financial crisis.
Additional modern nonmonetary explanations
The monetary explanation has two weaknesses. First it is not able to explain why the demand for money was falling more rapidly than the supply during the initial
downturn in 1930-31.[17] Second it is not able to explain why in March 1933 a recovery took place although short term interest rates remained close to zero and the
Money supply was still falling. These questions are addressed by modern explanations that build on the monetary explanation of Milton Friedman and Anna
Schwartz but add non-monetary explanations.
Debt deflation
Total debt to GDP levels in the U.S. reached a high of just under 300% by the time of the Depression. This level of debt was
not exceeded again until near the end of the 20th century.[18]
Jerome (1934) gives an unattributed quote about finance conditions that allowed the great industrial expansion of the post
WW I period:
Probably never before in this country had such a volume of funds been available at such low rates for such a long
period.[19]
Furthermore, Jerome says that the volume of new capital issues increased at a 7.7% compounded annual rate from 1922
–29 at a time when the Standard Statistics Co.'s index of 60 high grade bonds yielded from 4.98% in 1923 to 4.47% in
1927.
There was also a real estate and housing bubble in the 1920s, especially in Florida, which burst in 1925. Alvin Hansen
stated that housing construction during the 1920s decade exceeded population growth by 25%.[20] See also:Florida land
boom of the 1920s
Irving Fisher argued that the predominant factor leading to the Great Depression was over-indebtedness and deflation.
Fisher tied loose credit to over-indebtedness, which fueled speculation and asset bubbles.[21] He then outlined nine factors
interacting with one another under conditions of debt and deflation to create the mechanics of boom to bust. The chain of
events proceeded as follows:
1. Debt liquidation and distress selling
2. Contraction of the money supply as bank loans are paid off
3. A fall in the level of asset prices
4. A still greater fall in the net worths of business, precipitating bankruptcies
5. A fall in profits
6. A reduction in output, in trade and in employment.
7. Pessimism and loss of confidence
8. Hoarding of money
9. A fall in nominal interest rates and a rise in deflation adjusted interest rates.[21]
During the Crash of 1929 preceding the Great Depression, margin requirements were only 10%.[22] Brokerage firms, in
other words, would lend $90 for every $10 an investor had deposited. When the market fell, brokers called in these loans,
which could not be paid back. Banks began to fail as debtors defaulted on debt and depositors attempted to withdraw
their deposits en masse, triggering multiple bank runs. Government guarantees and Federal Reserve banking regulations
to prevent such panics were ineffective or not used. Bank failures led to the loss of billions of dollars in assets.[23]
Outstanding debts became heavier, because prices and incomes fell by 20–50% but the debts remained at the same dollar
amount. After the panic of 1929, and during the first 10 months of 1930, 744 US banks failed. (In all, 9,000 banks failed
during the 1930s). By April 1933, around $7 billion in deposits had been frozen in failed banks or those left unlicensed
after the March Bank Holiday.[24]
Bank failures snowballed as desperate bankers called in loans, which the borrowers did not have time or money to repay.
With future profits looking poor, capital investment and construction slowed or completely ceased. In the face of bad
loans and worsening future prospects, the surviving banks became even more conservative in their lending.[23] Banks
built up their capital reserves and made fewer loans, which intensified deflationary pressures. A vicious cycle developed
and the downward spiral accelerated.
The liquidation of debt could not keep up with the fall of prices it caused. The mass effect of the stampede to liquidate increased the value of each dollar owed,
relative to the value of declining asset holdings. The very effort of individuals to lessen their burden of debt effectively increased it. Paradoxically, the more the
debtors paid, the more they owed.[21] This self-aggravating process turned a 1930 recession into a 1933 great depression.
Fisher's debt-deflation theory initially lacked mainstream influence because of the counter-argument that debt-deflation represented no more than a redistribution
from one group (debtors) to another (creditors). Pure re-distributions should have no significant macroeconomic effects.
Building on both the monetary hypothesis of Milton Friedman and Anna Schwartz as well as the debt deflation hypothesis of Irving Fisher, Ben Bernanke developed
an alternative way in which the financial crisis affected output. He builds on Fisher's argument that dramatic declines in the price level and nominal incomes lead to
increasing real debt burdens which in turn leads to debtor insolvency and consequently leads to lowered aggregate demand, a further decline in the price level then
results in a debt deflationary spiral. According to Bernanke, a small decline in the price level simply reallocates wealth from debtors to creditors without doing
damage to the economy. But when the deflation is severe falling asset prices along with debtor bankruptcies lead to a decline in the nominal value of assets on bank
balance sheets. Banks will react by tightening their credit conditions, that in turn leads to a credit crunch which does serious harm to the economy. A credit crunch
lowers investment and consumption and results in declining aggregate demand which additionally contributes to the deflationary spiral.[25][26][27]
Economist Steve Keen revived the Debt-Reset Theory after he accurately predicted the 2008 recession based on his analysis of the Great Depression, and recently
advised Congress to engage in debt-forgiveness or direct payments to citizens in order to avoid future financial events.[28] Some people support the Debt-Reset
Theory.[29][30][31]
Expectations hypothesis
Expectations have been a central element of macroeconomic models since the economic mainstream accepted the new neoclassical synthesis. While not rejecting that
it was inadequate demand that sustained the depression, according to Peter Temin, Barry Wigmore, Gauti B. Eggertsson and Christina Romer the key to recovery and
the end of the Great Depression was the successful management of public expectations. This thesis is based on the observation that after years of deflation and a very
severe recession, important economic indicators turned positive in March 1933, just as Franklin D. Roosevelt took office. Consumer prices turned from deflation to a
mild inflation, industrial production bottomed out in March 1933, investment doubled in 1933 with a turnaround in March 1933. There were no monetary forces to
explain that turnaround. Money supply was still falling and short term interest rates remained close to zero. Before March 1933, people expected a further deflation
and recession so that even interest rates at zero did not stimulate investment. But when Roosevelt announced major regime changes people began to expect inflation
and an economic expansion. With those expectations, interest rates at zero began to stimulate investment as planned. Roosevelt's fiscal and monetary policy regime
change helped to make his policy objectives credible. The expectation of higher future income and higher future inflation stimulated demand and investments. The
analysis suggests that the elimination of the policy dogmas of the gold standard, a balanced budget in times of crises and small government led endogenously to a
large shift in expectation that accounts for about 70–80 percent of the recovery of output and prices from 1933 to 1937. If the regime change had not happened and
the Hoover policy had continued, the economy would have continued its free fall in 1933, and output would have been 30 percent lower in 1937 than in 1933.
[32][33][34]
The recession of 1937–38, which slowed down economic recovery from the great depression, is explained by fears of the population that the moderate tightening of
the monetary and fiscal policy in 1937 would be first steps to a restoration of the pre March 1933 policy regime.[35]
Heterodox theories
Austrian School
Austrian economists argue that the Great Depression was the inevitable outcome of the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve during the 1920s. In their opinion,
the central bank's policy was an "easy credit policy" which led to an unsustainable credit-driven boom. In the Austrian view, the inflation of the money supply during
this period led to an unsustainable boom in both asset prices (stocks and bonds) and capital goods. By the time the Federal Reserve belatedly tightened monetary
policy in 1928, it was too late to avoid a significant economic contraction.[36] Austrians argue that government intervention after the crash of 1929 delayed the
market’s adjustment and made the road to complete recovery more difficult.[37][38]
Acceptance of the Austrian explanation of what primarily caused the Great Depression is compatible with either acceptance or denial of the Monetarist explanation.
Austrian economist Murray Rothbard, who wrote America's Great Depression (1963), rejected the Monetarist explanation. He criticized Milton Friedman's assertion
that the central bank failed to sufficiently increase the supply of money, claiming instead that the Federal Reserve did pursue an inflationary policy when, in 1932, it
purchased $1.1 billion of government securities, which raised its total holding to $1.8 billion. Rothbard says that despite the central bank's policies, "total bank
reserves only rose by $212 million, while the total money supply fell by $3 billion". The reason for this, he argues, is that the American populace lost faith in the
banking system and began hoarding more cash, a factor very much beyond the control of the Central Bank. The potential for a run on the banks caused local bankers
to be more conservative in lending out their reserves, which, according to Rothbard's argument, was the cause of the Federal Reserve's inability to inflate.[39]
Friedrich Hayek had criticised the FED and the Bank of England in the 1930s for not taking a more contractionary stance.[40] However, in 1975, Hayek admitted that
he made a mistake in the 1930s in not opposing the Central Bank's deflationary policy and stated the reason why he had been ambivalent: "At that time I believed that
a process of deflation of some short duration might break the rigidity of wages which I thought was incompatible with a functioning economy.[41] In 1978, he made it
clear that he agreed with the point of view of the Monetarists, saying, "I agree with Milton Friedman that once the Crash had occurred, the Federal Reserve System
pursued a silly deflationary policy", and that he was as opposed to deflation as he was to inflation.[42] Concordantly, economist Lawrence White argues that the
business cycle theory of Hayek is inconsistent with a monetary policy which permits a severe contraction of the money supply.
Hans Sennholz argued that most boom and busts that plagued the American economy in 1819-20, 1839–43, 1857–60, 1873–78, 1893–97, and 1920–21, were
generated by government creating a boom through easy money and credit, which was soon followed by the inevitable bust. The spectacular crash of 1929 followed
five years of reckless credit expansion by the Federal Reserve System under the Coolidge Administration. The passing of the Sixteenth Amendment, the passage of
The Federal Reserve Act, rising government deficits, the passage of the Hawley-Smoot Tariff Act, and the Revenue Act of 1932, exacerbated the crisis, prolonging it.
[43]
Marxian
Marxists generally argue that the Great Depression was the result of the inherent instability of the capitalist model.[44]
Specific theories of cause
Non-debt deflation
In addition to the debt deflation there was a component of productivity deflation that had been occurring since The Great Deflation of the last quarter of the 19th
century.[45] There may have also been a continuation of the correction to the sharp inflation caused by WW I.
Oil prices reached their all-time low in the early 1930s as production began from the East Texas Oil Field, the largest field ever found in the lower 48 states. With the
oil market oversupplied prices locally fell to below ten cents per barrel.[46]
Productivity or technology shock
In the first three decades of the 20th century productivity and economic output surged due in part to electrification, mass production and the increasing motorization
of transportation and farm machinery. Electrification and mass production techniques such as Fordism permanently lowered the demand for labor relative to
economic output.[1][47] By the late 1920s the resultant rapid growth in productivity and investment in manufacturing meant there was a considerable excess production
capacity.[48]
Sometime after the peak of the business cycle in 1923, more workers were displaced by productivity improvements than growth in the employment market could
meet, causing unemployment to slowly rise after 1925.[49] [1] Also, the work week fell slightly in the decade prior to the depression.[50][51][52] Wages did not keep up
with productivity growth, which led to the problem of underconsumption.[1]
Henry Ford and Edward A. Filene were among prominent businessmen who were concerned with overproduction and underconsumption. Ford doubled wages of his
workers in 1914. The over-production problem was also discussed in Congress, with Senator Reed Smoot proposing an import tariff, which became the Smoot
–Hawley Tariff Act. The Smoot–Hawley Tariff was enacted in June, 1930. The tariff was misguided because the U.S. had been running a trade account surplus
during the 1920s.[1]
Another effect of rapid technological change was that after 1910 the rate of capital investment slowed, primarily due to reduced investment in business structures.[47]
The depression led to additional large numbers of plant closings.[19]
It cannot be emphasized too strongly that the [productivity, output and employment] trends we are describing are long-time trends and were thoroughly
evident prior to 1929. These trends are in nowise the result of the present depression, nor are they the result of the World War. On the contrary, the
present depression is a collapse resulting from these long-term trends. — M. King Hubbert[53]
In the book Mechanization in Industry, whose publication was sponsored by the National Bureau of Economic Research, Jerome (1934) noted that whether
mechanization tends to increase output or displace labor depends on the elasticity of demand for the product.[19] In addition, reduced costs of production were not
always passed on to consumers. It was further noted that agriculture was adversely affected by the reduced need for animal feed as horses and mules were displaced
by inanimate sources of power following WW I. As a related point, Jerome also notes that the term "technological unemployment" was being used to describe the
labor situation during the depression.[19]
Some portion of the increased unemployment which characterized the post-War years in the United States may be attributed to the mechanization of
industries producing commodities of inelastic demand. — Fredrick C. Wells, 1934[19]
The dramatic rise in productivity of major industries in the U. S. and the effects of productivity on output, wages and the work week are discussed by a Brookings
Institution sponsored book.[45]
Corporations decided to lay off workers and reduced the amount of raw materials they purchased to manufacture their products. This decision was made to cut the
production of goods because of the amount of products that were not being sold.[6]
Joseph Stiglitz and Bruce Greenwald suggested that it was a productivity-shock in agriculture, through fertilizers, mechanization and improved seed, that caused the
drop in agricultural product prices. Farmers were forced off the land, further adding to the excess labor supply.[54]
The prices of agricultural products began to decline after WW I and eventually many farmers were forced out of business, causing the failure of hundreds of small
rural banks. Agricultural productivity resulting from tractors, fertilizers and hybrid corn was only part of the problem; the other problem was the change over from
horses and mules to internal combustion transportation. The horse and mule population began declining after WW 1, freeing up enormous quantities of land
previously used for animal feed.[19][55][56]
The rise of the internal combustion engine and increasing numbers of motorcars and buses also halted the growth of electric street railways.[57]
The years 1929 to 1941 had the highest total factor productivity growth in the history of the U. S., largely due to the productivity increases in public utilities,
transportation and trade.[58]
Disparities in wealth and income
Economists such as Waddill Catchings, William Trufant Foster, Rexford Tugwell, Adolph Berle (and later John Kenneth Galbraith), popularized a theory that had
some influence on Franklin D. Roosevelt.[59] This theory held that the economy produced more goods than consumers could purchase, because the consumers did not
have enough income.[60][61][62] According to this view, in the 1920s wages had increased at a lower rate than productivity growth, which had been high. Most of the
benefit of the increased productivity went into profits, which went into the stock market bubble rather than into consumer purchases. Thus workers did not have
enough income to absorb the large amount of capacity that had been added.[1]
According to this view, the root cause of the Great Depression was a global overinvestment while the level of wages and earnings from independent businesses fell
short of creating enough purchasing power. It was argued that government should intervene by an increased taxation of the rich to help make income more equal.
With the increased revenue the government could create public works to increase employment and ‘kick start’ the economy. In the USA the economic policies had
been quite the opposite until 1932. The Revenue Act of 1932 and public works programmes introduced in Hoover's last year as president and taken up by Roosevelt,
created some redistribution of purchasing power.[62][63]
The stock market crash made it evident that banking systems Americans were relying on were not dependable. Americans looked towards insubstantial banking units
for their own liquidity supply. As the economy began to fail, these banks were no longer able to support those who depended on their assets – they did not hold as
much power as the larger banks. During the depression, “three waves of bank failures shook the economy.”[64] The first wave came just when the economy was
heading in the direction of recovery at the end of 1930 and the beginning of 1931. The second wave of bank failures occurred “after the Federal Reserve System
raised the rediscount rate to staunch an outflow of gold”[64] around the end of 1931. The last wave, which began in the middle of 1932, was the worst and most
devastating, continuing “almost to the point of a total breakdown of the banking system in the winter of 1932–1933.”[64] The reserve banks led the United States into
an even deeper depression between 1931 and 1933, due to their failure to appreciate and put to use the powers they withheld – capable of creating money – as well as
the “inappropriate monetary policies pursued by them during these years”.[64]
Gold Standard system
New York stock market index
According to the gold standard theory of the Depression, the Depression was largely caused by the decision of most western nations after World War I to return to the
gold standard at the pre-war gold price. Monetary policy, according to this view, was thereby put into a deflationary setting that would over the next decade slowly
grind away at the health of many European economies.
This post-war policy was preceded by an inflationary policy during World War I, when many European nations abandoned the gold standard, forced by the enormous
costs of the war. This resulted in inflation because the supply of new money that was created was spent on war, not on investments in productivity to increase demand
that would have neutralized inflation. The view is that the quantity of new money introduced largely determines the inflation rate, and therefore, the cure to inflation
is to reduce the amount of new currency created for purposes that are destructive or wasteful, and do not lead to economic growth.
After the war, when America and the nations of Europe went back on the gold standard, most nations decided to return to the gold standard at the pre-war price.
When Britain, for example, passed the Gold Standard Act of 1925, thereby returning Britain to the gold standard, the critical decision was made to set the new price
of the Pound Sterling at parity with the pre-war price even though the pound was then trading on the foreign exchange market at a much lower price. At the time, this
action was criticized by John Maynard Keynes and others, who argued that in so doing, they were forcing a revaluation of wages without any tendency to
equilibrium. Keynes' criticism of Winston Churchill's form of the return to the gold standard implicitly compared it to the consequences of the Treaty of Versailles.
One of the reasons for setting the currencies at parity with the pre-war price was the prevailing opinion at that time that deflation was not a danger, while inflation,
particularly the inflation in the Weimar Republic, was an unbearable danger. Another reason was that those who had loaned in nominal amounts hoped to recover the
same value in gold that they had lent. Because of the reparations that Germany had to pay France, Germany began a credit-fueled period of growth in order to export
and sell enough goods abroad to gain gold to pay the reparations. The U.S., as the world's gold sink, loaned money to Germany to industrialize, which was then the
basis for Germany paying back France, and France paying back loans to the U.K. and the U.S. This arrangement was codified in the Dawes Plan.
In some cases, deflation can be hard on sectors of the economy such as agriculture, if they are deeply in debt at high interest rates and are unable to refinance, or that
are dependent upon loans to finance capital goods when low interest rates are not available. Deflation erodes the price of commodities while increasing the real
liability of debt. Deflation is beneficial to those with assets in cash, and to those who wish to invest or purchase assets or loan money.
More recent research, by economists such as Peter Temin, Ben Bernanke and Barry Eichengreen, has focused on the constraints policy makers were under at the time
of the Depression. In this view, the constraints of the inter-war gold standard magnified the initial economic shock and were a significant obstacle to any actions that
would ameliorate the growing Depression. According to them, the initial destabilizing shock may have originated with the Wall Street Crash of 1929 in the U.S., but
it was the gold standard system that transmitted the problem to the rest of the world.[65]
According to their conclusions, during a time of crisis, policy makers may have wanted to loosen monetary and fiscal policy, but such action would threaten the
countries’ ability to maintain their obligation to exchange gold at its contractual rate. The gold standard required countries to maintain high interest rates to attract
international investors who bought foreign assets with gold. Therefore, governments had their hands tied as the economies collapsed, unless they abandoned their
currency’s link to gold. Fixing the exchange rate of all countries on the gold standard ensured that the market for foreign exchange can only equilibrate through
interest rates. As the Depression worsened, many countries started to abandon the gold standard, and those that abandoned it earlier suffered less from deflation and
tended to recover more quickly.[66]
Richard Timberlake, economist of the free banking school and protégé of Milton Friedman, specifically addressed this stance in his paper Gold Standards and the
Real Bills Doctrine in U.S. Monetary Policy, wherein he argued that the Federal Reserve actually had plenty of lee-way under the gold standard, as had been
demonstrated by the price stability policy of New York Fed governor Benjamin Strong, between 1923 and 1928. But when Strong died in late 1928, the faction that
took over dominance of the Fed advocated a real bills doctrine, where all money had to be represented by physical goods. This policy, forcing a 30% deflation of the
dollar that inevitably damaged the US economy, is stated by Timberlake as being arbitrary and avoidable, the existing gold standard having been capable of
continuing without it:
This shift in control was decisive. In accordance with the precedent Strong had set in promoting a stable price level policy without heed to any golden fetters,
real bills proponents could proceed equally unconstrained in implementing their policy ideal. System policy in 1928–29 consequently shifted from price level
stabilization to passive real bills. “The” gold standard remained where it had been—nothing but formal window dressing waiting for an opportune time to
reappear.[67]
Financial institution structures
Economic historians (especially Friedman and Schwartz) emphasize the importance of numerous
bank failures. The failures were mostly in rural America. Structural weaknesses in the rural
economy made local banks highly vulnerable. Farmers, already deeply in debt, saw farm prices
plummet in the late 1920s and their implicit real interest rates on loans skyrocket.
Their land was already over-mortgaged (as a result of the 1919 bubble in land prices), and crop
prices were too low to allow them to pay off what they owed. Small banks, especially those tied to
the agricultural economy, were in constant crisis in the 1920s with their customers defaulting on
loans because of the sudden rise in real interest rates; there was a steady stream of failures among
these smaller banks throughout the decade.
The city banks also suffered from structural weaknesses that made them vulnerable to a shock.
Some of the nation's largest banks were failing to maintain adequate reserves and were investing
heavily in the stock market or making risky loans. Loans to Germany and Latin America by New
York City banks were especially risky. In other words, the banking system was not well prepared
to absorb the shock of a major recession.
Economists have argued that a liquidity trap might have contributed to bank failures.
Economists and historians debate how much responsibility to assign the Wall Street Crash of 1929. The timing was right; the magnitude of the shock to expectations
of future prosperity was high. Most analysts believe the market in 1928–29 was a "bubble" with prices far higher than justified by fundamentals. Economists agree
that somehow it shared some blame, but how much no one has estimated. Milton Friedman concluded, "I don't doubt for a moment that the collapse of the stock
market in 1929 played a role in the initial recession".[68]
The idea of owning government bonds initially became ideal to investors when Liberty Loan drives encouraged this possession in America during World War I. This
strive for dominion persisted into the 1920s. After World War I, the United States became the world’s creditor and was depended upon by many foreign nations.
“Governments from around the globe looked to Wall Street for loans”.[69] Investors then started to depend on these loans for further investments. Chief counsel of the
Senate Bank Committee, Ferdinand Pecora, disclosed that National City executives were also dependent on loans from a special bank fund as a safety net for their
stock losses while American banker, Albert Wiggin, “made millions selling short his own bank shares”.[69]
Economist David Hume stated that the economy became imbalanced as the recession spread on an international scale. The cost of goods remained too high for too
long during a time where there was less international trade. Policies set in selected countries to “maintain the value of their currency” resulted in an outcome of bank
failures.[70] Governments that continued to follow the gold standard were led into bank failure, meaning that it was the governments and central bankers that
contributed as a stepping stool into the depression.
The debate has three sides: one group says the crash caused the depression by drastically lowering expectations about the future and by removing large sums of
investment capital; a second group says the economy was slipping since summer 1929 and the crash ratified it; the third group says that in either scenario the crash
could not have caused more than a recession. There was a brief recovery in the market into April 1930, but prices then started falling steadily again from there, not
reaching a final bottom until July 1932. This was the largest long-term U.S. market decline by any measure. To move from a recession in 1930 to a deep depression
in 1931–32, entirely different factors had to be in play.[71]
Protectionism
Protectionism, such as the Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act, is often indicted as a cause of the Great Depression, with countries enacting protectionist policies yielding a
beggar thy neighbor result.[72][73] The Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act was especially harmful to agriculture because it caused farmers to default on their loans. This event
may have worsened or even caused the ensuing bank runs in the Midwest and West that caused the collapse of the banking system. A petition signed by over 1,000
economists was presented to the U.S. government warning that the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act would bring disastrous economic repercussions; however, this did not
stop the act from being signed into law.
Governments around the world took various steps into spending less money on foreign goods such as: “imposing tariffs, import quotas, and exchange
controls” (Eichengreen, B.). These restrictions formed a lot of tension between trade nations, causing a major deduction during the depression. Not all countries
enforced the same measures of protectionism. Some countries raised tariffs drastically and enforced severe restrictions on foreign exchange transactions, while other
countries condensed “trade and exchange restrictions only marginally”.[74]
“Countries that remained on the gold standard, keeping currencies fixed, were more likely to restrict foreign trade.” These countries became more competitive and
“resorted to protectionist policies to strengthen the balance of payments and limit gold losses.” They hoped that these restrictions and depletions would lead them
towards economic recovery. On the other hand, countries that chose to alleviate the gold standard, allowing fluidity in their currencies, experienced economic
recovery and “benefited from gold inflows”.[74]
There were three options left that could lead economies back to recovery. These options were: “wage and price deflation to restore external and internal balance at the
current gold parity; trade and payments restrictions to limit spending on imports and reduce gold outflows; or abandoning the gold standard and allowing the
exchange rate to depreciate”.[74]
Some economists argue that protectionism was not a cause but a reaction to the depression,[73] with protectionism policies being adopted by countries holding to the
gold standard rather than having floating exchange rates: countries on the gold standard could not cut interest rates or act as lender of last resort because they would
run out of gold, while countries off the gold standard could cut interest rates and print fiat money. In this interpretation, protectionism served to change the terms of
trade for countries whose monetary policy was constrained by the gold standard.
International Debt Structure
When the war came to an end in 1918, all European nations that had been allied with the U.S. owed large sums of money to American banks, sums much too large to
be repaid out of their shattered treasuries. This is one reason why the Allies had insisted (to the consternation of Woodrow Wilson) on demanding reparation
payments from Germany and Austria–Hungary. Reparations, they believed, would provide them with a way to pay off their own debts. However, Germany and
Austria-Hungary were themselves in deep economic trouble after the war; they were no more able to pay the reparations than the Allies were able to pay their debts.
The debtor nations put strong pressure on the U.S. in the 1920s to forgive the debts, or at least reduce them. The American government refused. Instead, U.S. banks
began making large loans to the nations of Europe. Thus, debts (and reparations) were being paid only by augmenting old debts and piling up new ones. In the late
1920s, and particularly after the American economy began to weaken after 1929, the European nations found it much more difficult to borrow money from the U.S.
At the same time, high U.S. tariffs were making it much more difficult for them to sell their goods in U.S. markets. Without any source of revenue from foreign
exchange to repay their loans, they began to default.
Beginning late in the 1920s, European demand for U.S. goods began to decline. That was partly because European industry and agriculture were becoming more
productive, and partly because some European nations (most notably Weimar Germany) were suffering serious financial crises and could not afford to buy goods
overseas. However, the central issue causing the destabilization of the European economy in the late 1920s was the international debt structure that had emerged in
the aftermath of World War I.
The high tariff walls such as the Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act critically impeded the payment of war debts. As a result of high U.S. tariffs, only a sort of cycle kept the
reparations and war-debt payments going. During the 1920s, the former allies paid the war-debt installments to the U.S. chiefly with funds obtained from German
reparations payments, and Germany was able to make those payments only because of large private loans from the U.S. and Britain. Similarly, U.S. investments
abroad provided the dollars, which alone made it possible for foreign nations to buy U.S. exports.
The Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act was instituted by Senator Reed Smoot and Representative Willis C. Hawley, and signed into law by President Hoover, to raise taxes on
American imports by about 20 percent during June 1930. This tax, which aided towards the exceedingly damaged American income and overproduction, was only
beneficial towards the Americans in having to spend less on foreign goods. In contrast, European trading nations frowned upon this tax increase, particularly since
the “United States was an international creditor and exports to the U.S. market were already declining”.[74] In response to the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act, some of
America’s primary producers and largest trading partner, Canada, chose to seek retribution by increasing the financial value of imported goods favoured by the
Americans.
In the scramble for liquidity that followed the 1929 stock market crash, funds flowed back from Europe to America, and Europe's fragile economies crumbled.
By 1931, the world was reeling from the worst depression of recent memory, and the entire structure of reparations and war debts collapsed.
Population dynamics
In 1939, prominent economist Alvin Hansen discussed the decline in population growth in relation to the Depression.[75] The same idea was discussed in a 1978
journal article by Clarence Barber, an economist at the University of Manitoba. Using "a form of the Harrod model" to analyze the Depression, Barber states:
In such a model, one would look for the origins of a serious depression in conditions which produced a decline in Harrod's natural rate of growth, more
specifically, in a decline in the rate of population and labour force growth and in the rate of growth of productivity or technical progress, to a level below
the warranted rate of growth.[76]
The Great Depression in an international context.
Barber says, while there is "no clear evidence" of a decline in "the rate of growth of productivity" during the 1920s, there is "clear evidence" the population growth
rate began to decline during that same period. He argues the decline in population growth rate may have caused a decline in "the natural rate of growth" which was
significant enough to cause a serious depression.[76]
Barber says a decline in the population growth rate is likely to affect the demand for housing, and claims this is apparently what happened during the 1920s. He
concludes:
the rapid and very large decline in the rate of growth of non-farm households was clearly the major reason for the decline that occurred in residential
construction in the United States from 1926 on. And this decline, as Bolch and Pilgrim have claimed, may well have been the most important single
factor in turning the 1929 downturn into a major depression.[77]
The decline in housing construction that can be attributed to demographics has been estimated to range from 28% in 1933 to 38% in 1940.[78]
Among the causes of the decline in the population growth rate during the 1920s were a declining birth rate after 1910[79] and reduced immigration. The decline in
immigration was largely the result of legislation in the 1920s placing greater restrictions on immigration. In 1921, Congress passed the Emergency Quota Act,
followed by the Immigration Act of 1924.
Factors that majorly contributed to the failing of the economy since 1925, was a decrease in both residential and non-residential buildings being constructed. It was
the debt as a result of the war, less families being formed, and an imbalance of mortgage payments and loans in 1928–29 that mainly contributed to the decline in the
amount of houses being built. This caused the populate growth rate to decelerate. Though non-residential units continued to be built “at a high rate throughout the
decade”, the demands for such units were actually very low[64]
Role of economic policy
Calvin Coolidge (1923–29)
There is an ongoing debate between historians as to what extent President Calvin Coolidge's laissez-faire hands-off attitude has contributed to the Great Depression.
Despite a growing rate of bank failures he did not heed voices that predicted the lack of banking regulation as potentially dangerous. He did not listen to members of
Congress warning that stock speculation had gone too far and he ignored criticisms that workers did not participate sufficiently in the prosperity of the Roaring
Twenties.[80]
Leave-it-alone liquidationism (1929–33)
Overview
From the point of view of today's mainstream schools of economic thought, government
should strive to keep some broad nominal aggregate on a stable growth path (for
proponents of new classical macroeconomics and monetarism, the measure is the nominal
money supply; for Keynesian economists it is the nominal aggregate demand itself).
During a depression the central bank should pour liquidity into the banking system and the
government should cut taxes and accelerate spending in order to keep the nominal money
stock and total nominal demand from collapsing.[81]
The United States government and the Federal Reserve did not do that during the 1929-32
slide into the Great Depression[81] The existence of "liquidationism" played a key part in
motivating public policy decisions not to fight the gathering Great Depression. An
increasingly common view among economic historians is that the adherence of some
Federal Reserve policymakers to the liquidationist thesis led to disastrous consequences.
[82] Regarding the policies of President Hoover, economists Barry Eichengreen and J.
Bradford DeLong point out that the Hoover administration’s fiscal policy was guided by
liquidationist economists and policy makers, as Hoover tried to keep the federal budget
balanced until 1932, when Hoover lost confidence in his Secretary of the Treasury
Andrew Mellon and replaced him.[83][84][85] Hoover wrote in his memoirs he did not side
with the liquidationists, but took the side of those in his cabinet with "economic responsibility", his Secretary of Commerce Robert P. Lamont and Secretary of
Agriculture Arthur M. Hyde, who advised the President to "use the powers of government to cushion the situation".[86] But at the same time he kept Andrew Mellon
as Secretary of the Treasury until February 1932. It was during 1932 that Hoover began to support more aggressive measures to combat the Depression.[87] In his
memoirs, President Hoover wrote bitterly about members of his Cabinet who had advised inaction during the downslide into the Great Depression:
The leave-it-alone liquidationists headed by Secretary of the Treasury Mellon ... felt that government must keep its hands off and let the slump liquidate
itself. Mr. Mellon had only one formula: "Liquidate labor, liquidate stocks, liquidate the farmers, liquidate real estate ... It will purge the rottenness out of
the system. High costs of living and high living will come down. People will work harder, live a more moral life. Values will be adjusted, and
enterprising people will pick up the wrecks from less competent people."[81]
Before the Keynesian Revolution, such a liquidationist theory was a common position for economists to take and was held and advanced by economists like Friedrich
Hayek, Lionel Robbins Joseph Schumpeter, Seymour Harris and others.[85] According to the liquidationists a depression is good medicine. The function of a
depression is to liquidate failed investments and businesses that have been made obsolete by technological development in order to release factors of production
(capital and labor) from unproductive uses. These can then be redeployed in other sectors of the technologically dynamic economy. They pointed to the short duration
of the Depression of 1920–21 was due to the policy of letting the liquidation occur and argued that the crisis had laid the groundwork for the prosperity of the later
1920s. They pushed for deflationary policies (which were already executed in 1921) which – in their opinion – would assist the release of capital and labor from
unproductive activities to lay the groundwork for a new economic boom. The liquidationists argued that even if self-adjustment of the economy took mass
bankruptcies, then so be it.[85] Postponing the liquidation process would only magnify the social costs. Schumpeter wrote that it[81]
... leads us to believe that recovery is sound only if it does come of itself. For any revival which is merely due to artificial stimulus leaves part of the
work of depressions undone and adds, to an undigested remnant of maladjustment, new maladjustment of its own which has to be liquidated in turn, thus
threatening business with another (worse) crisis ahead.
Unemployment rate in the US 1910–60, with the years of the
Great Depression (1929–39) highlighted; accurate data
begins in 1939.
Federal spending in millions of dollars (1910–60). The time
period of the Hoover administration, the New Deal and
World War II are highlighted.
Despite liquidationist expectations, a large proportion of the capital stock was not redeployed and vanished during the first years of the Great Depression. According
to a study by Olivier Blanchard and Lawrence Summers, the recession caused a drop of net capital accumulation to pre-1924 levels by 1933.[88]
Criticism
Economists such as John Maynard Keynes and Milton Friedman suggested that the do-nothing policy prescription which resulted from the liquidationist theory
contributed to deepening the Great Depression.[83] With the rhetoric of ridicule Keynes tried to discredit the liquidationist view in presenting Hayek, Robbins and
Schumpeter as
...austere and puritanical souls [who] regard [the Great Depression] ... as an inevitable and a desirable nemesis on so much "overexpansion" as they call
it ... It would, they feel, be a victory for the mammon of unrighteousness if so much prosperity was not subsequently balanced by universal bankruptcy.
We need, they say, what they politely call a 'prolonged liquidation' to put us right. The liquidation, they tell us, is not yet complete. But in time it will be.
And when sufficient time has elapsed for the completion of the liquidation, all will be well with us again...
Milton Friedman stated that at the University of Chicago such “dangerous nonsense” was never taught and that he understood why at Harvard —where such nonsense
was taught— bright young economists rejected their teachers' macroeconomics, and become Keynesians.[81] He wrote:
I think the Austrian business-cycle theory has done the world a great deal of harm. If you go back to the 1930s, which is a key point, here you had the
Austrians sitting in London, Hayek and Lionel Robbins, and saying you just have to let the bottom drop out of the world. You’ve just got to let it cure
itself. You can’t do anything about it. You will only make it worse.… I think by encouraging that kind of do-nothing policy both in Britain and in the
United States, they did harm.[83]
Economist Lawrence White, while acknowledging that Hayek and Robbins did not actively oppose the deflationary policy of the early 1930s, nevertheless challenges
the argument of Milton Friedman, J. Bradford DeLong et al. that Hayek was a proponent of liquidationism. White argues that the business cycle theory of Hayek and
Robbins (which later developed into Austrian business cycle theory in its present-day form) was actually not consistent with a monetary policy which permitted a
severe contraction of the money supply. Nevertheless, White says that at the time of the Great Depression Hayek "expressed ambivalence about the shrinking
nomimal income and sharp deflation in 1929–32".[89] In a talk in 1975, Hayek admitted the mistake he made over forty years earlier in not opposing the Central
Bank's deflationary policy and stated the reason why he had been "ambivalent": "At that time I believed that a process of deflation of some short duration might break
the rigidity of wages which I thought was incompatible with a functioning economy."[41] 1979 Hayek strongly criticized the Fed's contractionary monetary policy
early in the Depression and its failure to offer banks liquidity:
I agree with Milton Friedman that once the Crash had occurred, the Federal Reserve System pursued a silly deflationary policy. I am not only against
inflation but I am also against deflation. So, once again, a badly programmed monetary policy prolonged the depression.[42]
Herbert Hoover (1929–33)
Economic policy
Historians gave Hoover credit for working tirelessly to combat the depression and noted that he left
government prematurely aged. But his policies are rated as simply not far-reaching enough to address the
Great Depression. He was prepared to do something, but nowhere near enough.[90] Hoover was no
exponent of laissez-faire. But his principal philosophies were voluntarism, self-help, and rugged
individualism. He refused direct federal intervention. He believed that government should do more than
his immediate predecessors (Warren G. Harding, Calvin Coolidge) believed. But he was not willing to go
as far as Franklin D. Roosevelt later did. Therefore, he is described as the "first of the new presidents" and
"the last of the old".[91]
Hoovers first measures were based on voluntarism by businesses not to reduce their workforce or cut
wages. But businesses had little choice and wages were reduced, workers were laid off, and investments
postponed. Hoover urged bankers to set up the National Credit Corporation so that big banks could help
failing banks survive. But bankers were reluctant to invest in failing banks, and the National Credit
Corporation did almost nothing to address the problem.[92] In 1932 Hoover reluctantly established the
Reconstruction Finance Corporation, a Federal agency with the authority to lend up to $2 billion to rescue
banks and restore confidence in financial institutions. But $2 billion was not enough to save all the banks, and bank runs and bank failures continued.[93]
Federal spending
J. Bradford DeLong explained that Hoover would have been a budget cutter in normal times and
continuously wanted to balance the budget. Hoover held the line against powerful political forces that
sought to increase government spending after the Depression began for fully two and a half years. During
the first two years of the Depression (1929 and 1930) Hoover actually achieved budget surpluses of about
0.8% of gross domestic product (GDP). In 1931, when the recession significantly worsened and GDP
declined by 15%, the federal budget had only a small deficit of 0.6% of GDP. It was not until 1932 (when
GDP declined by 27% compared to 1929-level) that Hoover pushed for measures (Reconstruction
Finance Corporation, Federal Home Loan Bank Act, direct loans to fund state Depression relief
programs) that increased spending. But at the same time he pushed for the Revenue Act of 1932 that
massively increased taxes in order to balance the budget again.[87]
Uncertainty was a major factor, argued by several economists, that contributed to the worsening and
length of the depression. It was also said to be responsible “for the initial decline in consumption that
marks the” beginning of the Great Depression by economists Paul R. Flacco and Randall E. Parker.
Economist Ludwig Lachmann argues that it was pessimism that prevented the recovery and worsening of
the depression[94] President Hoover is said to have been blinded from what was right in front of him.
USA GDP annual pattern and long-term trend, 1920–40, in
billions of constant dollars.
Economist James Deusenberry argues economic imbalance was not only a result of World War I, but also of the structural changes made during the first quarter of
the Twentieth Century. He also states the branches of the nation’s economy became smaller, there was not much demand for housing, and the stock market crash
“had a more direct impact on consumption than any previous financial panic”[95]
Economist William A. Lewis describes the conflict between America and its primary producers:
Misfortunes (of the 1930’s) were due principally to the fact that the production of primary commodities after the war was somewhat in excess of
demand. It was this which, by keeping the terms of trade unfavourable to primary producers, kept the trade in manufactures so low, to the detriment of
some countries as the United Kingdom, even in the twenties, and it was this which pulled the world economy down in the early thirties….If primary
commodity markets had not been so insecure the crisis of 1929 would not have become a great depression....It was the violent fall of prices that was
deflationary.[96]
The stock market crash was not the first sign of the Great Depression. “Long before the crash, community banks were failing at the rate of one per day”.[69] It was the
development of the Federal Reserve System that misled investors in the ‘20s into relying on federal banks as a safety net. They were encouraged to continue buying
stocks and to overlook any of the fluctuations. Economist Roger Babson tried to warn the investors of the deficiency to come, but was ridiculed even as the economy
began to deteriorate during the summer of 1929. While England and Germany struggled under the strain on gold currencies after the war, economists were blinded by
an unsustainable ‘new economy' they sought to be considerably stable and successful.[69]
Since the United States decided to no longer comply with the gold standard, “the value of the dollar could change freely from day to day”.[70] Although this
imbalance on an international scale led to crisis, the economy within the nation remained stable.
The depression then affected all nations on an international scale. “The German mark collapsed when the chancellor put domestic politics ahead of sensible finance;
the bank of England abandoned the gold standard after a subsequent speculative attack; and the U.S. Federal Reserve raised its discount rate dramatically in October
1931 to preserve the value of the dollar”.[70] The Federal Reserve drove the American economy into an even deeper depression.
Tax policy
In 1929 the Hoover administration responded to the economic crises by temporarily lowering income tax rates and the corporate tax rate.[97] At the beginning of 1931,
tax returns showed a tremendous decline in income due to the economic downturn. Income tax receipts were 40% less than in 1930. At the same time government
spending proved to be a lot greater than estimated.[97] As a result, the budget deficit increased tremendously. While Secretary of the Treasury Andrew Mellon urged
to increase taxes, Hoover had no desire to do so since 1932 was an election year.[98] In December 1931, hopes that the economic downturn would come to an end
vanished since all economic indicators pointed to a continuing downward trend.[99] On January 7, 1932, Andrew Mellon announced that the Hoover administration
would end a further increase in public debt by raising taxes.[100] On June 6, 1932, the Revenue Act of 1932 was signed into law. It raised taxes on all brackets, tripling
the tax rate on the poorest, and on the wealthy he increased taxes from 25% to 63%.[101][102] The higher taxes were first to be paid for the fiscal year 1933 when
coincidently the long recession ended.
Franklin Delano Roosevelt (1933–45)
The New Deal was Roosevelt´s response to the Great Depression. The reception is mixed. While some
historians and economists argue that the New Deal was the key to recovery others argue that it prolonged
the Great Depression.
In a survey of economic historians conducted by Robert Whaples, Professor of Economics at Wake Forest
University, anonymous questionnaires were sent to members of the Economic History Association.
Members were asked to either disagree, agree, or agree with provisos with the statement that read:
"Taken as a whole, government policies of the New Deal served to lengthen and deepen the Great
Depression." While only 6% of economic historians who worked in the history department of their
universities agreed with the statement, 27% of those that work in the economics department agreed.
Almost an identical percent of the two groups (21% and 22%) agreed with the statement "with
provisos" (a conditional stipulation), while 74% of those who worked in the history department, and 51%
in the economic department disagreed with the statement outright.[103]
Arguments for key to recovery
According to Peter Temin, Barry Wigmore, Gauti B. Eggertsson and Christina Romer the biggest primary
impact of the New Deal on the economy and the key to recovery and to end the Great Depression was brought about by a successful management of public
expectations. Before the first New Deal measures people expected a contractionary economic situation (recession, deflation) to persist. Roosevelt's fiscal and
monetary policy regime change helped to make his policy objectives credible. Expectations changed towards an expansionary development (economic growth,
inflation). The expectation of higher future income and higher future inflation stimulated demand and investments. The analysis suggests that the elimination of the
policy dogmas of the gold standard, balanced budget and small government led endogenously to a large shift in expectation that accounts for about 70–80 percent of
the recovery of output and prices from 1933 to 1937. If the regime change would not have happened and the Hoover policy would have continued, the economy
would have continued its free fall in 1933, and output would have been 30 percent lower in 1937 than in 1933.[32][33]
Arguments for prolongation of the Great Depression
In the new classical macroeconomics view of the Great Depression large negative shocks caused the 1929–33 downturn – including monetary shocks, productivity
shocks, and banking shocks – but those developments become positive after 1933 due to monetary and banking reform policies. According to the model Cole-
Ohanian impose, the main culprits for the prolonged depression were labor frictions and productivity/efficiency frictions (perhaps, to a lesser extent). Financial
frictions are unlikely to have caused the prolonged slump.[104][105]
In the Cole-Ohanian model there is a slower than normal recovery which they explain by New Deal policies which they evaluated as tending towards monopoly and
distribution of wealth. The key economic paper looking at these diagnostic sources in relation to the Great Depression is Cole and Ohanian’s work. Cole-Ohanian
point at two policies of New Deal: the National Industrial Recovery Act and National Labor Relations Act (NLRA), the latter strengthening NIRA’s labor provision.
According to Cole-Ohanian New Deal policies created cartelization, high wages, and high prices in at least manufacturing and some energy and mining industries.
Roosevelts policies against the severity of the Depression like the NIRA, a “code of fair competition” for each industry were aimed to reduce cutthroat competition in
a period of severe deflation, which was seen as the cause for lowered demand and employment. The NIRA suspended antitrust laws and permitted collusion in some
sectors provided that industry raised wages above clearing level and accepted collective bargaining with labor unions. The effects of cartelization can be seen as the
basic effect of monopoly. The given corporation produces too little, charges too high of a price, and under-employs labor. Likewise, an increase in the power of
unions creates a situation similar to monopoly. Wages are too high for the union members, so the corporation employs fewer people and, produces less output. Cole-
Ohanian show that 60% of the difference between the trend and realized output is due to cartelization and unions.[104] Chari, Kehoe, McGrattan also present a nice
exposition that’s in line with Cole-Ohanian. .[105]
This type of analysis has numerous counterarguments including the applicability of the equilibrium business cycle to the Great Depression.[106]
See also
◾ Political philosophy
◾ Timeline of the Great Depression
Notes
1. Beaudreau, Bernard C. (1996). Mass Production, the Stock Market Crash and the
Great Depression. New York, Lincoln, Shanghi: Authors Choice Press.
2. Field, Alexander J. (2011). A Great Leap Forward: 1930s Depression and U.S.
Economic Growth. New Haven, London: Yale University Press. p. 182. ISBN 978-
0-300-15109-1<Field cites Freeman & Schwartz (1963), Temin (1976), Bernanke
(1983), Field (1984), Romer (1990), Eighengreen (1992).>
3. Robert Whaples, Where Is There Consensus Among American Economic
Historians? The Results of a Survey on Forty Propositions., Journal of Economic
History, Vol. 55, No. 1 (March 1995), p. 150 in JSTOR.
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/2123771)
4. Robert Whaples, Where Is There Consensus Among American Economic
Historians? The Results of a Survey on Forty Propositions., Journal of Economic
History, Vol. 55, No. 1 (March 1995), p. 143 in JSTOR.
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/2123771)
5. Keen 2000, p. 198.
6. Caldwell, J., & O'Driscoll, T. G. (2007). What Caused the Great Depression?.
Social Education, 71(2), 70-74
7. Paul Krugman, "Who Was Milton Friedman?" New York Review of Books Volume
32, Number 32 · February 3, 2007 online community
(http://www.nybooks.com/articles/19857)
8. Friedman 1965, p. 4.
9. The History of Economic Downturns in the US – But Now You Know.net
(http://butnowyouknow.wordpress.com/those-who-fail-to-learn-fromhistory/
history-of-economic-downturns-in-the-us/)
10. * Bruner, Robert F.; Carr, Sean D. (2007). The Panic of 1907: Lessons Learned
from the Market's Perfect Storm. Hoboken, New Jersey: John Wiley & Sons.
ISBN 978-0-470-15263-8
11. Gold Standards and the Real Bills Doctrine in US Monetary Policy, Richard H
Timberlake, published in Econ Journal Watch, August 2005 –
http://www.econjournalwatch.org/pdf/TimberlakeIntellectualTyrannyAugust2005.pdf
12. Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar publishing, 2003,
ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 11
13. Ben Bernanke, "Non-monetary effects of the financial crisis in the propagation of
the Great Depression", (1983) American Economic Review . Am 73#3 257–76.
14. Friedman 2007, p. 15.
15. (Samuelson 1948, p. 353)
16. Samuelson, Friedman, and monetary policy
(http://krugman.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/12/14/samuelson-friedman-and-monetarypolicy/),
Paul Krugman, New York Times Blog, December 14, 2009
17. Robert Whaples, Where Is There Consensus Among American Economic
Historians? The Results of a Survey on Forty Propositions., Journal of Economic
History, Vol. 55, No. 1 (March 1995), p. 150, in JSTOR
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/2123771?seq=1#page_scan_tab_contents)
18. [1] (http://www.johnmauldin.com/images/uploads/pdf/mwo071811.pdf) Several
graphs of total debt to GDP can be found on the Internet.
19. Jerome, Harry (1934). Mechanization in Industry, National Bureau of Economic
Research.
20. Hansen, Alvin (1939). "Economic Progress and Declining Population Growth".
American Economic Review'. 29 (March).
21. Fisher, Irving (October 1933). "The Debt-Deflation Theory of Great Depressions".
Econometrica. The Econometric Society. 1 (4): 337–357. doi:10.2307/1907327.
JSTOR 1907327.
22. Fortune, Peter (Sep–Oct 2000). "Margin Requirements, Margin Loans, and Margin
Rates: Practice and Principles – analysis of history of margin credit regulations –
Statistical Data Included". New England Economic Review.
23. "Bank Failures". Living History Farm. Retrieved 2008-05-22.
24. "Friedman and Schwartz, Monetary History of the United States", 352
25. Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Edward Elgar Publishing,
2003, ISBN 9781843765509, p. 14-15
26. Bernanke, Ben S (June 1983). "Non-Monetary Effects of the Financial Crisis in the
Propagation of the Great Depression". The American Economic Review. The
American Economic Association. 73 (3): 257–276. JSTOR 1808111.
27. Mishkin, Fredric (December 1978). "The Household Balance and the Great
Depression". Journal of Economic History. 38 (4): 918–37.
doi:10.1017/S0022050700087167.
28. Keen, Steve (2012-12-06). "Briefing for Congress on the Fiscal Cliff: Lessons from
the 1930s - Steve Keen's Debtwatch". Debtdeflation.com. Retrieved 2014-12-01.
29. http://libertyloveandjusticeforall.com/2012/12/08/debt-reset-is-inevitable/
30. Friedersdorf, Conor (2012-12-05). "What If the Fiscal Cliff Is the Wrong Cliff?".
The Atlantic. Retrieved 2014-12-01.
31. "Private Debt Caused The Current Great Depression, Not Public Debt - Michael
Clark". Seeking Alpha. Retrieved 2014-12-01.
32. Gauti B. Eggertsson, Great Expectations and the End of the Depression
(http://www.aeaweb.org/articles.php?doi=10.1257/aer.98.4.1476), American
Economic Review 2008, 98:4, 1476–1516
33. The New York Times, Christina Romer, The Fiscal Stimulus, Flawed but Valuable
(http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/21/business/how-the-fiscal-stimulus-helpedand-
could-have-done-more.html?hp&_r=0), October 20, 2012
34. Peter Temin, Lessons from the Great Depression, MIT Press, 1992, ISBN
9780262261197, p. 87-101
35. Gauti B. Eggertsson, Great Expectations and the End of the Depression
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/29730131), The American Economic Review, Vol. 98,
No. 4 (Sep., 2008), S. 1476-1516, p. 1480
36. Murray Rothbard, America's Great Depression (Ludwig von Mises Institute, 2000),
pp. 159–63.
37. Rothbard, America's Great Depression, pp. 19–21"
38. Mises, Ludwig von (2006). The Causes of the Economic Crisis; and Other Essays
Before and After the Great Depression. Ludwig von Mises Institute. p. 207.
ISBN 978-1933550039.
39. Rothbard, A History of Money and Banking in the United States, pp. 293–94.
40. John Cunningham Wood, Robert D. Wood, Friedrich A. Hayek, Taylor & Francis,
2004, ISBN 9780415310574, p. 115
41. White, Clash of Economic Ideas, p. 94. See alsoWhite, Lawrence (2008). "Did
Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?". Journal of Money, Credit and
Banking. 40 (40): 751–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x.
42. F. A. Hayek, interviewed by Diego Pizano July, 1979 published in: Diego Pizano,
Conversations with Great Economists: Friedrich A. Hayek, John Hicks, Nicholas
Kaldor, Leonid V. Kantorovich, Joan Robinson, Paul A.Samuelson, Jan Tinbergen
(Jorge Pinto Books, 2009).
43. Sennholz, Hans (October 1, 1969). "The Great Depression". Foundation for
Economic Education. Retrieved October 23, 2016.
44. "Lewis Corey: The Decline of American Capitalism (1934)". Marxists.org. 2007-
09-30. Retrieved 2014-12-01.
45. Bell, Spurgeon (1940). "Productivity, Wages and National Income , The Institute of
Economics of the Brookings Institution".
46. Yergin, Daniel (1992). The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money $ Power.
47. Vatter, Harold G.; Walker, John F.; Alperovitz, Gar (2005). "The onset and
persistence of secular stagnation in the U.S. economy: 1910-1990, Journal of
Economic Issues".
48. Beaudreau (1996) cites capacity utilization at 84-86%, which would be a decent
number today; however, there were some industrial leaders who complained of
overcapacity, as did Senator Smoot.
49. Jerome, Harry (1934). Mechanization in Industry, National Bureau of Economic
Research<For the several industries studied industry expansion offset most of the
productivity gains that would otherwise have resulted in many more job losses than
actually occurred. To prevent rising unemployment the laid off workers would have
to have changed industries, but it was noted that even if workers were successful at
such a change the time typically took 18 months or more. The employment
statistics for the 1930 census reflect conditions after the start of the depression so
the actual employment situation prior to the depression is unknown.>
50. "Hours of Work in U.S. History". 2010.
51. Whaples, Robert (June 1991). "The Shortening of the American Work Week: An
Economic and Historical Analysis of Its Context, Causes, and Consequences, The
Journal of Economic History, Vol. 51, No. 2; pp. 454–57".
52. Field, Alexander (2004). "Technological Change and Economic Growth the
Interwar Years and the 1990s" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2012-03-
10.
53. Hubbert, M. King (1940). "Man Hours and Distribution , Derived from Man Hours:
A Declining Quantity, Technocracy, Series A, No. 8, August 1936".
54. Stiglitz, Joseph (2011). "The Book of Jobs". Vanity Fair. Retrieved 2011-12-23
55. Ayres, R. U.; Ayres, L. W.; Warr, B. (2002). "Exergy, Power and Work in the U. S.
Economy 1900–1998, Insead's Center For the Management of Environmental
Resources, 2002/52/EPS/CMER" (PDF)<Fig. 4 in Appendix>From one-sixth to
one-quarter of all land had been used to grow animal feed.
56. Atack, Jeremy; Passell, Peter (1994). A New Economic View of American History.
New York: W.W. Norton and Co. pp. 574–6. ISBN 0-393-96315-2.
57. General Motors and the Decline of Streetcars
(http://debunkportland.com/printables/TQOrigin.pdf)
58. Field, Alexander J. (2011). A Great Leap Forward: 1930s Depression and U.S.
Economic Growth. New Haven, London: Yale University Press. ISBN 978-0-300-
15109-1.
59. David M. Kennedy, 'Freedom From Fear, The American People in Depression and
War 1929–1945, Oxford University Press, 1999, ISBN 0-19-503834-7, pp. 122,
123
60. Dorfman,1959
61. Allgoewer, Elisabeth (May 2002). "Underconsumption theories and Keynesian
economics. Interpretations of the Great Depression" (PDF). Discussion paper no.
2002-14.
62. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p. 108
63. The Road to Plenty (1928)
64. Chapter 15: The Great Depression. (1999). Growth of the International Economy
1820–2000 (pp. 226–34). Taylor & Francis Ltd / Books.
65. Eichengreen 1992, p. xi
66. Bernanke 2002, p. 80
67. Gold Standards and the Real Bills Doctrine in U.S. Monetary Policy, RICHARD H.
TIMBERLAKE
http://www.econjournalwatch.org/pdf/TimberlakeIntellectualTyrannyAugust2005.pdf
68. Parker, p. 49.
69. Chernow, R. (2009, Oct 23). Everyman's financial meltdown. New York Times
(1923-Current File). Retrieved from
http://search.proquest.com/docview/1030683641
70. Temin, P. (2010). The Great Recession & the Great Depression. Daedalus, 139(4),
115–24.
71. White, 1990.
72. Protectionism and the Great Depression
(http://krugman.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/11/30/protectionism-and-the-greatdepression/),
Paul Krugman, New York Times, November 30, 2009
73. The protectionist temptation: Lessons from the Great Depression for today
(http://voxeu.org/index.php?q=node/3280), VOX, Barry Eichengreen, Douglas
Irwin, 17 March 2009
74. EICHENGREEN, B., & IRWIN, D. A. (2010). The Slide to Protectionism in the
Great Depression: Who Succumbed and Why?. Journal Of Economic History, 70
(4), 871–97.
75. Hansen, Alvin (1939). "Economic Progress and Declining Population Growth".
ISBN 978-1162557823<Originally printed in a journal. Reprinted 2004, 2010>
76. Barber, Clarence L. "On the Origins of the Great Depression", Southern Economic
Journal, January, 1978, 44(3), pp. 432–56.
77. Barber, Clarence L. "On the Origins of the Great Depression", Southern Economic
Journal, January 1978, 44(3), pp. 432–56. See also Bolch, B. W. and J. D. Pilgrim,
"A Reappraisal of Some Factors Associated with Fluctuations in the United States
in the Interwar Period." Southern Economic Journal, January 1973, pp. 327–44.
78. Atack, Jeremy; Passell, Peter (1994). A New Economic View of American History.
New York: W.W. Norton and Co. p. 599. ISBN 0-393-96315-2.
79. Longman, Philip (2004). The Empty Cradle: How Falling Birthrates Threaten
World Prosperity And What to Do About It. p. 87. ISBN 0-465-05050-6.
80. Melvin I. Urofsky, The American Presidents: Critical Essays, ISBN 0-8153-
2184-8, p. 391
81. J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real Business Cycle
Theory and the Great Depression (http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?
new_window=1), National Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No.
3546, p. 1
82. White, Lawrence (2008). "Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?".
Journal of Money, Credit, and Banking. 40 (40): 751–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-
4616.2008.00134.x.
83. White, Lawrence (2008). "Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?".
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking. 40 (40): 751–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-
4616.2008.00134.x.
84. J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real Business Cycle
Theory and the Great Depression (http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?
new_window=1), National Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No.
3546, p. 5
85. Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar publishing, 2003,
ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 9
86. Hoover, Herbert. The Memoirs of Herbert Hoover, p. 31
(http://www.ecommcode.com/hoover/ebooks/pdf/FULL/B1V3_Full.pdf) Archived
(https://web.archive.org/web/20081217233238/http://www.ecommcode.com/hoover/ebooks/pdf/FULL/B1V3_December 17, 2008, at the Wayback Machine.
87. Bradford DeLong, What Was Herbert Hoover's Fiscal Policy?
(http://delong.typepad.com/sdj/2011/07/what-was-herbert-hoovers-fiscalpolicy.
html)
88. J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real Business Cycle
Theory and the Great Depression (http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?
new_window=1), National Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No.
3546, p. 33
89. Lawrence White, The Clash of Economic Ideas: The Great Policy Debates and
Experiments of the 20th Century (Cambridge University Press), p. 94.
90. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 4. Auflage, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, pp. 110–11
91. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 4. Auflage, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p. 120
92. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 4. Auflage, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p. 113
93. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 4. Auflage, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p. 114
94. Houck, D. W. (2000). RHETORIC AS CURRENCY: HERBERT HOOVER AND
THE 1929 STOCK MARKET CRASH. Rhetoric & Public Affairs, 3(2), 155–81.
95. Barber, C. L. (1978). "On the Origins of the Great Depression". Southern Economic
Journal, 44(3), 432.
96. Lewis, W. A. Economic Survey, 1919–1929. London: Allen and Unwin, 1949.
97. Roy G. Blakey, Gladys C. Blakey, The Federal Income Tax, 2006, p. 301
98. Roy G. Blakey, Gladys C. Blakey, The Federal Income Tax, 2006, pp. 302–03
99. Roy G. Blakey, Gladys C. Blakey, The Federal Income Tax, 2006, p. 304
100. Roy G. Blakey, Gladys C. Blakey, The Federal Income Tax, 2006, p. 305
101. The Concise Encyclopedia of Economics: The Great Depression
http://www.econlib.org/library/Enc/GreatDepression.html
102. http://www.cato.org/pubs/bp/bp122.pdf
103. Robert Whaples, "Where Is There Consensus Among American Economic
Historians? The Results of a Survey on Forty Propositions", Journal of Economic
History, Vol. 55, No. 1 (Mar., 1995), pp. 139–54 in JSTOR
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/2123771)
104. Cole, Harold L., and Lee E. Ohanian. "The Great Depression from a Neoclassical
Perspective." N.p., n.d. Web.
<https://www.minneapolisfed.org/research/qr/qr2311.pdf>.
105. Chari, V. V., Patrick J. Kehoe, and Ellen R. McGrattan. "Accounting for the Great
Depression." N.p., n.d. Web.
<https://www.minneapolisfed.org/research/qr/qr2721.pdf>.
106. De Vroey, Michel R. "Real Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression: The
Abandonment of the Abstentionist Viewpoint." N.p., n.d. Web.
<http://www.econ.umn.edu/~tkehoe/classes/DevroeyPensieroso.pdf>.
References
◾ Secular Stagnation and Great Depression, R. L. Norman, Jr. (http://www.secularstagnation.com)
◾ Dorfman, Joseph (1959). "Economic Mind in American Civilization"vol 4 and 5 cover the ideas of all American economists of 1918-1933.
◾ Friedman, Milton and Anna Jacobson Schwartz, A Monetary History of the United States, 1867–1960 (1963)
◾ Keen, Steve 2001. Debunking Economics Pluto Press Australia Limited Sydney, Australia
◾ Meltzer, Allan H. 2003 A History of the Federal Reserve Volume I: 1913–1951 Chicago University Press, Chicago, IL
◾ Rothbard, Murray N. 1963 America's Great Depression D. Van Nostrand Company, Princeton, NJ
◾ Rothbard, Murray N. A History of Money and Banking in the United States: The Colonial Era to World War II (2002)
◾ Samuelson, Paul (1948). "Economics".
◾ White, Eugene N. "The Stock Market Boom and Crash of 1929 Revisited" Journal of Economic Perspectives, Vol. 4, No. 2 (Spring, 1990), pp. 67–83;
examines different theories
Further reading
World
◾ Ambrosius, G. and W. Hibbard. A Social and Economic History of Twentieth-Century Europe (1989)
◾ Barber, Clarence Lyle (University of Manitoba) "On the Origins of the Great Depression" (1978)
◾ Bordo, Michael, and Anna J. Schwartz, eds. A Retrospective on the Classical Gold Standard, 1821–1931 (1984) (National Bureau of Economic Research
Conference Report)
◾ Bordo, Michael et al. eds. The Gold Standard and Related Regimes: Collected Essays (1999)
◾ Brown, Ian. The Economies of Africa and Asia in the Inter-War Depression (1989)
◾ Davis, Joseph S. The World Between the Wars, 1919–39: An Economist's View (1974)
◾ Eichengreen, Barry. Golden Fetters: The Gold Standard and the Great Depression, 1919–1939 (NBER Series on Long-Term Factors in Economic
Development), 1996, ISBN 0-19-510113-8
◾ Eichengreen, Barry, and Marc Flandreau, eds. The Gold Standard in Theory and History (1997)
◾ Feinstein, Charles H. The European Economy Between the Wars (1997)
◾ Garraty, John A. The Great Depression: An Inquiry into the Causes, Course, and Consequences of the Worldwide Depression of the Nineteen-Thirties, as Seen
by Contemporaries and in Light of History (1986)
◾ Garraty, John A. Unemployment in History (1978)
◾ Garside, William R. Capitalism in Crisis: International Responses to the Great Depression (1993)
◾ Haberler, Gottfried. The World Economy, Money, and the Great Depression 1919–1939 (1976)
◾ Hall, Thomas E. and J. David Ferguson. The Great Depression: An International Disaster of Perverse Economic Policies (1998)
◾ Kaiser, David E. Economic Diplomacy and the Origins of the Second World War: Germany, Britain, France and Eastern Europe, 1930–1939 (1980)
◾ Kindleberger, Charles P. The World in Depression, 1929–1939 (1983);
◾ Tipton, F. and R. Aldrich. An Economic and Social History of Europe, 1890–1939 (1987)
United States
◾ Ben S. Bernanke. Essays on the Great Depression (2000)
◾ Bernstein, Michael A. The Great Depression: Delayed Recovery and Economic Change in America, 1929–1939 (1989) focus on low-growth and high-growth
industries
◾ Bordo, Michael D., Claudia Goldin, and Eugene N. White, eds. The Defining Moment: The Great Depression and the American Economy in the Twentieth
Century (1998). Advanced economic history.
◾ Chandler, Lester. America's Greatest Depression (1970). economic history overview.
◾ De Long, Bradford. Liquidation Cycles and the Great Depression (1991)
◾ Horwitz, Steven (2008). "Hoover's Economic Policies". In Henderson, David R. Concise Encyclopedia of Economics (2nd ed.). Indianapolis: Library of
Economics and Liberty. ISBN 978-0865976658. OCLC 237794267.
◾ Jensen, Richard J. "The Causes and Cures of Unemployment in the Great Depression," Journal of Interdisciplinary History 19 (1989) 553–83. online at JSTOR
in most academic libraries
◾ McElvaine, Robert S. The Great Depression (2nd ed 1993) social history
◾ Mitchell, Broadus. Depression Decade: From New Era through New Deal, 1929–1941 (1964), standard economic history overview.
◾ Parker, Randall E. Reflections on the Great Depression (2002) interviews with 11 leading economists
◾ Salsman, Richard M. “The Cause and Consequences of the Great Depression” in The Intellectual Activist, ISSN 0730-2355. Mr. Salsman argues that the Great
Depression was fundamentally caused by statist government policy.
◾ Singleton, Jeff. The American Dole: Unemployment Relief and the Welfare State in the Great Depression (2000) (http://www.questia.com/PM.qst?
a=o&d=24419587)
◾ Warren, Harris Gaylord. Herbert Hoover and the Great Depression (1959).
Role of the United States Federal Reserve
◾ Chandler, Lester V. American Monetary Policy, 1928–41. (1971).
◾ Epstein, Gerald and Thomas Ferguson. "Monetary Policy, Loan Liquidation and Industrial Conflict: Federal Reserve System Open Market Operations in
1932." Journal of Economic History 44 (December 1984): 957–84. in JSTOR
◾ Kubik, Paul J., "Federal Reserve Policy during the Great Depression: The Impact of Interwar Attitudes regarding Consumption and Consumer Credit." Journal
of Economic Issues. Vo: 30. Issue: 3. Publication Year: 1996. pp 829+.
◾ Mayhew, Anne. "Ideology and the Great Depression: Monetary History Rewritten." Journal of Economic Issues 17 (June 1983): 353–60.
◾ Meltzer, Allan H. A History of the Federal Reserve, Volume 1: 1913–1951 (2004) the standard scholarly history
◾ Steindl, Frank G. Monetary Interpretations of the Great Depression. (1995).
◾ Temin, Peter. Did Monetary Forces Cause the Great Depression? (1976).
◾ Wicker, Elmus R. "A Reconsideration of Federal Reserve Policy during the 1920–1921 Depression," Journal of Economic History (1966) 26: 223–38, in
JSTOR
◾ Wicker, Elmus. Federal Reserve Monetary Policy, 1917–33. (1966).
◾ Wells, Donald R. The Federal Reserve System: A History (2004)
◾ Wueschner, Silvano A. Charting Twentieth-Century Monetary Policy: Herbert Hoover and Benjamin Strong, 1917–1927 Greenwood Press. (1999)
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Causes_of_the_Great_Depression&oldid=756605201"
Categories: 1920s Great Depression Causes of events
◾ This page was last modified on 25 December 2016, at 13:22.
◾ Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use
and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
1910年-1960年のアメリカ合衆国の年毎の実質GDP。世界恐慌の期間
(1929年-1939年)をピンク色で示した。
世界恐慌の原因
出典: フリー百科事典『ウィキペディア（Wikipedia）』
この記事は検証可能な参考文献や出典が全く示されていないか、不十分です。
出典を追加して記事の信頼性向上にご協力ください。（2009年11月）
この項目「世界恐慌の原因」は途中まで翻訳されたものです。（原文：英語版 "Causes of the Great
Depression" 00:56, 24 August 2012 （UTC） (https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=Causes_of_the_Great_Depression&oldid=508859943)）
翻訳作業に協力して下さる方を求めています。ノートページや履歴 (https://ja.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=%E4%B8%96%E7%95%8C%E6%81%90%E6%85%8C%E3%81%AE%E5%8E%9F%E5%9B%
A0&action=history)、翻訳のガイドラインも参照してください。要約欄への翻訳情報の記入をお忘れなく。
（2016年2月）
世界恐慌の原因(せかいきょうこうのげんいん)は経済学者達の活発な議論の主題となっており、これは広く見れば経済危機に関する議
論の一環でもある。だが一般的には、世界恐慌は1929年の株価大暴落により引き起こされたと信じられている。世界恐慌時に起きた
個々の経済的事件も徹底的に研究されてきた: そういった事件には、資産や商品価格のデフレ、需要と信用の急降下、貿易網の崩壊、
そして究極的に起こる失業とそれに続く貧困などがある。しかしながら、恐慌を引き起こし、あるいは恐慌からの回復をもたらした政府の
経済政策と個々の事件との因果関係は歴史家の間で意見の一致をみていない。
近年では、理論は二つの主流派といくつかの異説に大きく分けられる。
まず、ケインズ経済学や制度派経済学による需要主導モデルの理論では、不景気は消費不足と(それによってバブル経済が引き起こさ
れたところの)過剰投資によって引き起こされたと主張される。需要主導モデルの理論においては、信用が大きく損なわれたことで消費・
投資活動の急激な減少が起きたということで意見が一致している。一たび混乱・デフレが起こると、多くの人々は市場から距離を置くこと
でこれ以上の損失を回避しようとするというのである。このために物価は下がり続け、等量のお金でも多くの物品を買えるようになる。そ
の結果、お金を貯蓄に回すことが有利となり、更なる需要減少に見舞われることになる。
次に、マネタリストらによれば、世界恐慌は通常の不景気として始まったのだが、その時の通貨当局(特に連邦準備制度)による重大な政
策のミスが金融引締めという結果を招き、これによって経済状況が極端に悪化したために通常の不景気から世界恐慌に至ったという。こ
の説明は、負債デフレによって借り手は実質的により多くの債務を負うことになると指摘する人々と関連がある。
このほかにいくつかの異説があり、それらを支持してケインジアンやマネタリストの説明を否定する者がいる。新しい古典派マクロ経済学
者の中には、恐慌初期に課された様々な労働市場政策が長く深刻な世界恐慌を齎したと主張する者もいる。オーストリア経済学派は、
中央銀行の決定がどのようにして誤投資を招くかとマネーサプライのマクロ経済的影響に着目する。
目次
◾ 1 一般理論による説明
◾ 1.1 主流説
◾ 1.1.1 ケインジアン
◾ 1.1.2 マネタリスト
◾ 1.2 異説
◾ 1.2.1 オーストリア学派
◾ 1.2.2 マルクス主義
◾ 2 原因に関する個々の理論
◾ 2.1 負債デフレ
◾ 2.2 負債以外の原因によるデフレ
◾ 2.3 生産に対する衝撃
◾ 2.4 富と収入の不均衡
◾ 2.5 金本位制
◾ 2.6 金融機関の構造
◾ 2.7 保護貿易主義
◾ 2.8 国際的な債権構造
◾ 2.9 集団動力学
◾ 3 経済政策の役割
◾ 3.1 放任清算主義
◾ 3.2 オーストリア学派の政府膨張論
◾ 3.2.1 消費の増大
◾ 3.2.2 新たな公的規制
◾ 3.2.3 税率の引き上げ
◾ 4 関連項目
◾ 5 脚注
◾ 6 参考文献
◾ 7 関連文献
◾ 7.1 世界
◾ 7.2 アメリカ合衆国
◾ 7.3 連邦準備制度の役割
一般理論による説明
主流説
ケインジアン
多くの経済学者がその活動を主張するところの自己修正機構が不景気に働かないことがある理由は複数あると1936年に経済学者ジョ
ン・メイナード・ケインズが主張した。著書『雇用・利子および貨幣の一般理論』においてケインズは、世界恐慌を説明するための概念を導
入した。不景気時における不干渉主義政策に対する一つの主張として、もし貯蓄によって消費が落ち込むならば貯蓄は利率の低下をも
たらすというものがある。古典派経済学者によれば、低い利率は投資の拡大をもたらし需要が持続的になるという。
しかし、利率が低下しても投資が必ずしも活発にならないことの良い説明があるとケインズは主張する。利益を期待しての投資は事業に
よってもたらされる。それゆえ、消費の落ち込みが長期にわたるならば、事業の分析の傾向として将来の売り上げの期待は低いものとな
る。そのため、低利率によって資本が安価になっても将来の生産量を増大させるような投資は最も関心が向かないものとなるのである。
この場合、消費の減少によって経済は一斉安に陥る[1]。ケインズによれば、この自己強化的活動こそが恐慌時に非常に活発になり、倒
産が頻発して(将来に対する楽観的な期待が必要である)投資がほとんど起こらなくなったのだという。この説は経済学者によってしばし
ばセイの法則に反するものとして特徴づけられ、特にオーストリア経済学派に人気がある。
資本投資の減少が恐慌の原因であるという説は長期停滞論の中心的な主題である。
マネタリスト
1963年の著書『米国金融史 1867年-1960年』において、ミルトン・フリードマンとアンナ・シュウォーツは彼ら流の世界恐慌の説明を開陳し
た。彼らの考えによれば、本質的には、世界恐慌はマネーサプライの減少によってもたらされた。フリードマンとシュウォーツは次のように
書いている: 「1929年8月の周期的な山から1933年の周期的な谷までの間に、通貨流通量は3分の1強にまで落ち込んだ。」その結果が
フリードマンいう所の「大収縮」―金融引き締めの窒息効果による収入・物価・雇用の減退―である。この頃、連邦準備制度が供給する
より以上に人々はお金を欲していたのだとフリードマンとシュウォーツは主張する。その結果人々は消費を減らすことでお金を貯蓄した。
また、物価は即座に下落するほど融通が利かないために、結果として、雇用と生産の収縮が起きた。連邦の過ちは何が起こったのか分
からなかったことや正しい対応を取らなかったことにある[2]。
恐慌以降、その主要な説明はマネーサプライの重要性を無視する傾向があった。しかし、マネタリストによれば、恐慌は「事実上、金融の
効果の重要性の悲劇的な証明である[3]。」彼らによれば、連邦準備制度の世界恐慌に対処する上での失敗は、金融政策が無力である
ことの表れではなく、連邦準備制度が間違った政策を実行したことの表れであるという。彼らは連邦が恐慌を「起こした」と主張しているの
ではなく、不景気が恐慌になるのを防ぐ政策を使い損ねたと言っているだけである。
南北戦争後から20世紀初期にかけて、アメリカ合衆国とヨーロッパは政府が規定する形の金本位制を採用していた。この時期のアメリカ
経済は周期的な好不況の波を受けていた。不景気はしばしば銀行不況によって引き起こされていたとみられ、特に重要なものは1873
年、1893年、1901年、1907年、1920年に起こっている[4]。連邦準備制度が1913年に成立する以前のアメリカ合衆国では銀行システムが
紙幣の兌換性を停止することでこうした(1907年恐慌のような)危機に対処していた。1893年に開始して以降、金融機関やビジネスマンに
よる成長努力がこうした危機に介在し、取り付けに喘ぐ銀行に流動性をもたらしていた。1907年の銀行恐慌の際、J・P・モルガンの招集し
たその場限りの連合がこの方法でうまく介入し、それによって恐慌が遮断されており、このため通常銀行恐慌に続いて起こる大恐慌がこ
の時には起こらなかったのだとされる。政府がこうした解決策をとることが要求されたために連邦準備制度が設立されることとなった[5]。
しかし1928年-1932年には、連邦準備制度は取り付けにあえぐ銀行に流動性をもたらすことはなかった。実際にはその政策はマネーサプ
ライの急激な収縮を許すことで銀行危機に応えていた。狂騒の20年代には、中央銀行は第一の目標を「物価の安定」に定めていたが、
これはニューヨーク連邦準備銀行の総裁ベンジャミン・ストロングが、物価の安定を金融目標とした非常に著名な経済学者アーヴィング・
フィッシャーの弟子だからということもある。そういった事情から中央銀行は社会の物価が安定する程度にドルの流通量を保った。1928年
にストロングが死に、彼の死とともにこの政策が終了し、全ての通貨・証券は背後に実際的な物品を裏付けとして持っているべきだという
真正手形学説が取って代わった。この政策の為にアメリカ合衆国のマネーサプライは1929年から1933年の間に3分の1以上に減少するこ
とになった[6]。
この通貨減少によって銀行への取り付けが起こっても連邦は真正手形学説を保持し、1907年恐慌を遮ったときの方法で銀行に貸し付け
ることを拒否し、代わりに各銀行を破滅的な取り付けにあえぐままにさせ完全に没落させた。この政策によって連鎖的な銀行の倒産が起
こり、当時存在した銀行の3分の1が消滅した。[7]。ベン・バーナンキによれば、続いて起こった信用危機によってさらに倒産の波が起こっ
た[8]。1907年と同じ政策が1930年終わりの銀行恐慌の際にも採用されていればこれによって物価下落時の資産の流動化の強制の悪し
き連鎖が防げただろうとフリードマンは述べた。そうしていれば、1893年や1907年に兌換性停止によって当時の流動性危機がすぐに止ん
だのと同じく、1931年、1932年、1933年の銀行恐慌は起こらなかったであろうというのである[9]。
マネタリストによる説明はサミュエルソンの著書『経済学』において否定されており、「連邦準備制度の金融政策を景気循環を制御する万
能薬とみなす経済学者は今日ではほとんどいない。純粋に金融的なファクターは原因であるのと同じだけ徴候であると考えられる、悪化
させる効果を伴っており完全に無視すべきではない徴候ではあるが[10]。」と述べられている。ケインズ経済学者のポール・クルーグマン
によれば、フリードマンとシュウォーツの著作は1980年代までに主流派経済学者の間で支配的になったが、1990年代日本の「失われた
10年」の下に再考されるべきであるという[11]。経済危機における金融危機の役割は世界金融危機 (2007年-)に関する活発な議論で扱わ
れている。世界金融危機 (2007年-)の原因を参照。
異説
世界恐慌初期の取り付け騒ぎ時にニュー
ヨークのアメリカ連合銀行に集まった群衆
オーストリア学派
世界恐慌は1920年代の連邦準備制度の金融政策の避けられない結果だったとオーストリア経済学派は主張している。彼らの意見では、
この中央銀行の政策は持続不可能な信用によるにわか景気をもたらす「安直な信用政策」であった。オーストリア学派の考えでは、この
時期のマネーサプライのインフレが資産価値(有価証券)と資本財の両者において持続不可能なバブルを引き起こしたという。連邦準備
制度が1928年に遅れて金融引き締めを行うまでには、深刻な経済後退を避けるには手遅れになっていた[12]。1929年の大暴落の後の政
府の介入によって市場の調節が遅れ、完全な回復がより困難になる道が開かれたとオーストリア学派は主張している[13]。
世界恐慌の主原因に関するオーストリア学派の説明を受け入れることはマネタリストの説明の否定を受け入れることと両立する。『アメリ
カの世界恐慌』(1963年)の著者でオーストリア経済学派のマリー・ロスバードはマネタリストの説明を否定している。中央銀行はマネーサ
プライを十分に増やすのに失敗したのだというミルトン・フリードマンの主張をロスバードは批判し、代わりに、1932年に連邦準備制度が
11億ドルの米国債を買い入れて所有国債量を18億ドルとした際、連邦準備制度はインフレ政策を追求していたのだと主張する。中央銀
行の政策に反してデフレが深刻化したのは「マネーサプライ総量が30億ドルに達したのに（民間）銀行の準備金の総量は2億1200万ドル
に留まった」ためであり、これはアメリカの大衆が銀行組織に不信感を抱いてさらに多くの預金を銀行から引き出し退蔵したという、中央
銀行の制御を大きく超える理由によるものだと彼は主張する。ロスバードの主張によると、銀行に対する取付のおそれの為に地銀は準
備金の貸し出しにさらに消極的になり、このために連邦準備制度がインフレを起こせなかったという[14]ことになる。
ロスバードがマネタリストの説明を批判したことに対して、もう一人の卓越したオーストリア経済学派のメンバーフリードリヒ・ハイエクは反
対した。ハイエクは、自身が1930年に中央銀行のデフレ政策に反対しなかったことが誤っていたと1975年に認め、曖昧な態度をとったこ
とに関して釈明した: 「当時私は、幾分短い期間におけるデフレの過程は、(経済が機能することと両立不可能だと私が考えていたところ
の)賃金の硬直性を破壊するものだと考えていた[15]。」 1978年には彼は「一たび急落が起こると連邦準備制度は愚かなデフレ政策を追
求するようになるということに関してミルトン・フリードマンに賛成する」と述べてマネタリストの見解に賛成し、デフレに反対してインフレに
賛成することを明らかにした[16]。この流れを汲んで、マネーサプライの強い引き締めを許すような金融政策とハイエクの景気循環理論は
矛盾すると経済学者のローレンス・H・ホワイトが主張している。
マルクス主義
「資本主義#マルクス学派」も参照
マルクス主義者は概して、資本主義モデルに固有の不安定性が世界恐慌を引き起こしたのだと主張する[17]。
原因に関する個々の理論
負債デフレ
詳細は「負債デフレ」を参照
アメリカ合衆国のGDPに対する負債の割合は世界恐慌の時までには300%に達した。この
割合は20世紀終わりまで越えられることはなかった[18]。
ジェローム(1934年)は戦間期の産業の大発展を可能にした財政状態に関する原典不明の
引用をしている:
恐らく未だかつてこの国でこれほどの量の国債がこれほど低い利率、これほど長い
期間にわたって出されたことはなかった[19]。
さらに、スタンダード・スタティスティックス社による60度の国債の指数が1923年の4.98%から
4.47%になった際には新たな資本発行の量が1922年から1929年の年平均から7.7%増加し
たとジェロームは述べている。
1920年代には特にフロリダ州で不動産・住宅のバブルが起こったが1925年に破裂した。
1920年代の住宅建設は人口増加の勢いを25%上回っていたとアルヴィン・ハンセンが述べている[20]。参照:1920年代フロリダの土地バブ
ル
アーヴィング・フィッシャーは、世界恐慌を引き起こした主原因は負債過多とデフレだと主張した。フィッシャーは信用の低下を負債過多と
結びつけ、負債過多が投機熱と資産バブルを刺激したのだとしている[21]。負債・デフレという状況下で相互作用し、バブルが起こり崩壊
する仕組みを作りだした九つの要因を彼は概説している。それら先行する出来事の連鎖は以下:
1. 負債の流動化と占有権の売却
2. 銀行ローンとしてのマネーサプライの緊縮が清算される
3. 資産価格水準の低下
4. 全体としての商業価値の深刻な低下、突然の破産
5. 利益の低下
6. 商業・雇用における生産量の低下
7. 信用の減少とペシミズム
8. お金の死蔵
9. 名目金利の低下と利率にあわせたデフレの拡大[21]
ウォール街大暴落後にウォール街に群がる
群衆
世界恐慌に先行する1929年の急落の際、証拠金規定額は10%にすぎなかった[22]。つまり、
株式仲売業者は投資社が1ドル預けるごとに9ドル貸し付けた。市場が急落した際、業者は
こうしたローンを回収しようとしたが、それは返ってくることはなかった。債務者が債務不履
行を起こし、預金者が一斉に預金を回収しようとすることで取り付け騒ぎが起こり、銀行が
倒産し始めた。こうした騒ぎを食い止めるための政府の保証や連邦準備制度による銀行の
規制は効果がないか使われなかった。銀行の破産により数十億ドルの資産が失われた
[23]。
物価と収入が20-50%減少しているのに負債は同価格であるため、未払いの負債が重くのし
かかった。1929年の混乱の後、1930年最初の10か月間に744のアメリカ合衆国の銀行が破
産した(1930年代には全部で9000ほどの銀行が破産した)。1933年4月までに、3月の銀行の
法定休日の後に無資格の預金や破産した銀行の70億ドルの預金が凍結された[24]。
絶望した銀行家が、借り手が返すお金・時間を持てないほどの勢いで貸付金の回収を行う
とともに銀行の倒産が連鎖的に起こった。予測利益が低いものであったため、資本投資や
建築が停滞した。不良債権や将来の見通しの悪化に直面し、生きのこった銀行は貸付によ
り消極的になった[23]。銀行は基本準備金を増加させるとともに貸し付けを減らし、これに
よってデフレ圧を強めた。悪しき循環が進み、下降スパイラルが増加した。
負債の流動化は自身が引き起こした物価の下降を食い止められなかった。自身の資産を
流動させようという大衆の衝動的行動の大局的効果によってデフレが加速し、資産量減衰
の価値に影響した。自身の負債を減らそうとする個々人の努力こそが事実上それを増大さ
せていた。逆説的だが、負債者が払えば払うほど、彼らは負債を多く抱えることになった
[21]。この自己悪化の過程が1930年の不景気を1933年の世界恐慌へ変えた。
連邦準備銀行の総裁ベン・バーナンキのようなマクロ経済学者がフィッシャーに由来する世界恐慌の負債デフレ説を復活させた[25][26]。
負債以外の原因によるデフレ
負債デフレに加えて、19世紀最後の四半世紀の大デフレ以降に起こった生産性デフレの構成要素が存在した[27] 。第一次世界大戦に
よって起こったインフレを強める補正もおそらく継続していた。
48州で見つかった中でも最大の油田、東テキサス油田が操業して、1930年代には原油価格が歴代最安値に達していた。原油市場にお
ける過剰供給のため価格は10セント/バレルにまで低下していた[28]。参照: 世界恐慌の原因#生産に対する衝撃
生産に対する衝撃
20世紀最初の30年には資本投資と経済生産高が電化・大量生産・輸送機関の電動化・農業の機械化とともに湧き起こり、生産性の急速
な増加により、多くの工場の閉鎖や物価の下落とともに余剰生産能力の増大が見られた[19][29]。結果として、世界恐慌の前の10年には
一週の労働時間が僅かに減少していた[30][31][32]。世界恐慌によってさらに多くの工場が閉鎖した[19]。
「我々の述べる[生産性、生産高、雇用の]傾向が1929年以前に完全に明白だったことをあまり極端に強調することはできな
い。この傾向はこの恐慌の結果では決してないし、世界大戦の結果でもない。そうではなくて、この恐慌はこういった長期に
わたる傾向の結果起こった崩壊なのである[33]。」マリオン・キング・ヒューバート
全米経済研究所の援助により出版されたジェローム『産業の機械化』(1934年)には、機械化が生産高を増大させる傾向を持つのか労働
力を解雇する傾向を持つのかは生産物の要求の弾力性に依存すると述べられている[19]。また、生産コスト現象は必ずしも消費者に還元
されない。さらに、第一次世界大戦以降ウマやラバが非動物の動力に取って代わられるとともに家畜飼料の需要が減少して農業は不利
な影響を被ったと述べられている。「技術的失業」という術語は世界恐慌時の労働環境を表すのに使われるとも『産業の機械化』に記さ
れている[19]。
「戦間期アメリカ合衆国の特徴である失業の増大の幾分かは非弾力的需要に応じた商品を生産する産業の機械化が原因
であるといえるだろう[19]。」フレデリック・C・ウェルズ、1934年
1923年の景気循環の頂点からしばらく後、過剰な労働者が雇用創生と比較して生産性発展により取って代わられており、1925年以降の
失業の拡大を引き起こした[34][29]。
アメリカ合衆国の主要産業の生産性の劇的な拡大とその生産品、賃金、労働時間に対する影響が、ブルッキングス研究所の支援により
出版された書籍の中で議論されている。[27]
肥料、機械化、品種改良を通じた生産性ショックこそが農産物価格の低下を引き起こしたのだとジョセフ・スティグリッツとブルース・グリー
ンウォルドが主張した。農家は過剰な労働力供給を加えた土地に押し込められていたのだという[35]。
農産物価格は第一次世界大戦後に低下し始めた。結果的に多くの農家が商売として農業を成り立たせられなくなり、数百の小規模な地
銀の倒産を招いた。トラクター、肥料、雑種トウモロコシによる農業生産性は問題の一部にすぎなかった; 他の問題とはウマ・ラバから内
燃力輸送機関への転換であった。ウマ・ラバの数は第一次世界大戦以降減少し始め、家畜飼料を生産していた大量の土地が余るように
なった[19][36]。
自動車・バスが電車の発展を止めるようになった[37]。
富と収入の不均衡
ウォディル・キャッチングズ、ウィリアム・トゥルファント・フォスター、レックスフォード・タグウェル、アドルフ・バール(、そして後にはジョン・ケ
ネス・ガルブレイス)といった経済学者はフランクリン・ルーズベルトに幾分かの影響を与えた理論を普及させた[38]。その理論とは、経済
が、消費者に十分な収入がないにもかかわらず、消費者が購入できる以上の商品を生産してしまった、というものである[39][40][41]。この説
によれば、1920年代の賃金の上昇率は生産性の上昇率を下回っていたのである。生産性が増大したことによる恩恵のほとんどは利潤と
なってしまい、それは株式市場バブルを引き起こしたものの、消費者の購買行動には繋がらなかった。このように、1920年代を通じて富
が不平等に分配されたことが世界恐慌を引き起こしたという。
この説によれば、世界恐慌の根本的な原因は、独立企業による賃金・収入の水準が十分な購買力を生み出すに達していないにもかか
わらず行われた世界的な過剰投資である。また、政府は富裕層に対する課税を重くすることで収入をより平等にすべきだった、と主張さ
れる。政府は、歳入の増加を利用して公共事業を行って雇用を増加させることで経済を「蹴って始動」させられた、という。だがアメリカ合
衆国では1932年まで、これとは正反対の経済政策が行われていたのである。大統領退任前年のハーバート・フーヴァーに紹介されフラ
ンクリン・ルーズベルトによって採用されることになった<1932年歳入法>や公共事業計画が、購買力をある程度再分配することに成功し
たのである[42][43]。
金本位制
世界恐慌の金本位制理論によれば、恐慌の原因は主に、第一次世界大戦後の西側諸国が戦前の値段に基づく金本位制に復帰しようと
したことにである。この説によれば、これによって金融政策がデフレ志向になり10年間にわたってヨーロッパの多くの国の経済の健全性を
害し続けたという。
この戦後政策に先駆けてインフレ政策がとられていた第一次世界大戦中には、多くのヨーロッパ諸国は戦費の激増により金本位制を廃
止せざるを得なかった。この結果、新しく作られた金の供給がインフレを中和させる生産性への投資ではなく戦費に使われたため、インフ
レが起こった。この説は、大量に導入された金の量によってインフレ率が決まり、それゆえインフレへ導くことが、破壊的・消費的であって
経済成長を導かない目的のために造られた新貨幣の総量を減少させるというものである。
戦後アメリカやヨーロッパ諸国が金本位制に復帰した際、多くの国は戦前の水準の金-通貨レートをとった。例えばイギリスでは1925年に
金本位法が国会を通過し、これによって金本位制に復帰した際、当時外国為替市場で戦前よりもずっと低い価格でポンドが取引されて
いたにもかかわらずスターリング・ポンドを戦前と等価に設定するという致命的な決定を行った。当時ジョン・メイナード・ケインズらは、政
府はそうすることによって釣り合いが取れていないような賃金再設定を強いているのだと主張してこの決定を批判した。ウィンストン・
チャーチルが金本位制に復帰させたことに対するケインズの批判はこれを暗にヴェルサイユ条約の結果と比較するものであった。
戦前と等価にしようという傾向が生まれた理由として一つは、デフレは危険ではないのに対してインフレは、特にヴァイマール共和国に見
られるインフレは耐え難い危険であるという当時優勢であった意見があった。もう一つの理由として、額面価額で貸し付けている者は自
身が貸し付けたのと同価値の金を回復できる期待があったというものがある[citation needed]。フランスに支払わなければならない巨額
の賠償金を支払うための外貨を獲得するのに十分な商品を輸出・販売するために、ドイツは信用を犠牲にした成長の時代に入った。世
界の金の溜まる場所としてのアメリカ合衆国はドイツがフランスに償還するための基盤として産業化するための資金を貸し付け、フランス
はイギリスおよびアメリカに償還した。この流れはドーズ案に明文化された。
非常に高利の借金をして再融資もできない状態にあるか、低利率ではないときに資本財に融資するための貸し付けに依存している場
合、農業のような産業分野にとってデフレは辛いものとなりうる。負債の実質的価値が増加しているのに対して物価はデフレに浸食され
ていく。資産を現金で保持している者や、資産を投資・購買に充てたり資金を貸し付けたりしようとしている者にとってはデフレは有益であ
る。
ピーター・テミン、ベン・バーナンキ、バリー・アイケングリーンといった経済学者によるより近年の研究は、世界恐慌時に緊縮政策がとら
れていたことに着目している。この考え方によれば、戦間期の金本位制下での緊縮は最初の経済的ショックを拡大し、恐慌を食い止める
あらゆる行動に対して大きな障害となったという。彼らによれば、最初の不安定化させる衝撃はアメリカ合衆国のウォール街大暴落に起
因するが、外国に問題を伝播させたのは金本位制であるという[44]。
彼らの出した結論によると、危機の時代の政策決定者たちは金融政策・財政政策を緩和しようとしたが、そのような行動が、契約上の率
で金を交換する義務を維持する国家の能力を脅かしたという。外国の資産を金で買おうとする国際的投資家を引き付けるために、金本
位制は高利率を維持することを要求する。そのため、金本位制を廃止しない限り、政府は景気の急落にも手をこまねいているほかない。
金本位制をとる全ての国の交換比率を修正することで、外国為替市場が利率の平衡を保つ事だけは保証される。恐慌が悪化すると多く
の国が金本位制を廃止し始め、より早く廃止した国々はより少なくデフレの影響を受けてより早くデフレから回復する傾向があった[45]。
自由銀行制派経済学者にしてミルトン・フリードマンの弟子のリチャード・ティンバーレイクは自身の立場を『アメリカ合衆国の金融政策に
みられる金本位制と実質手形原理』で明確に説明したが、この論文での彼の主張によると、連邦準備制度は実は金本位制化においてか
なりの余裕を持っており、そのことがニューヨーク連邦準備銀行総裁ベンジャミン・ストロングによる1923年から1928年の物価安定政策に
よって証明されたという。しかし1928年後半にストロングが没すると、ニューヨーク連邦準備銀行の支配権を引き継いだ派閥が、全ての金
は実際の商品によって代表されなければならないという実質手形原理を唱道した。ドルに30%のデフレを強いて当然合衆国経済に損害
を与えたこの政策は恣意的で、避けられるものであって、金本位制はこれなしに存続できたとティンバーレイクが述べている:
金の管理におけるこの移行は決定的であった。ストロングは前任者に従って金本位制という足かせに頓着せずに物価安定政策を
実行し、実質手形原理の支持者は自身の理想とする政策を実行する上で同様に束縛を受けずに済んだ。1928年-1929年のシステ
ムポリシーは結果的に物価安定から受動的な実質手形に移行した。「この」金本位制はそれが再出現するのに好都合な時を待つ
形式的な見せ掛けでしかない場所で残存した[46]。
金融機関の構造
経済史家(特にフリードマンとシュウォーツ)が多くの銀行が倒産したことの重要性を強調する。倒産は主にアメリカの地方で起こった。地
域経済の構造的な脆弱性によって地銀が非常に貧弱になっていたのである。農家は既に多額の負債を抱えており、1920年代に農場価
格が急落するのと負債の予想実質比率が跳ね上がるのとを目にした。
ニューヨーク株価指数
彼らの土地は(1919年の地価バブルの結果として)過剰に法的義務
を負わされており、穀物の価格が低いために彼らは所有物を売り
払うことを強いられた。小銀行、特に農業経済と結びついた小銀行
は1920年代には突然の実質利率の上昇による顧客の債務不履行
のために常に危機的状況にあった; こういった小銀行の間には20
年代を通じて既に倒産の波が押し寄せていたのである。
都銀もまたショックへの弱さをもたらす構造的脆弱性に苦しんでい
た。国内最大の銀行の中には適量の準備金を保持せずに、株式市
場で大量の投資を行ったりリスクの高い貸し付けを行ったりするも
のもあった。ニューヨーク市銀によるドイツやラテンアメリカへの貸し
付けは特に高リスクであった。つまり、銀行機構は大不景気の
ショックを低減するように十分に準備されていなかったのである。
ウォール街大暴落に関する事実をどれだけ特定できるか経済学
者・歴史家が議論している。時期は明らかである。; 将来の利益に
対する期待への衝撃は甚大であった。1928年-1929年の市場はファ
ンダメンタルズによって定められたよりも極端に物価が高い「バブ
ル」であったとほとんどのアナリストが考えている。そのことに何らかの点で責任があるが、どれだけ責任があるかを推量することはでき
ないと経済学者たちは認めている。「1929年の株式市場の崩壊が最初の不景気に役割を果たしたことは片時も疑えない[47]」とミルトン・
フリードマンが結論付けている。
議論は三つのグループに分かれている: 最初のグループは、急落が将来の予想の劇的な低下と大量の資本投資の撤退とによって恐慌
を引き起こしたと述べる; 第二のグループは、1929年夏に景気がずり落ちて急落がそれを追認したと述べる; 第三のグループは、どちら
のシナリオにおいても急落は不景気を引き起こす以上のことはなしえないと述べる。市場は1930年4月には一旦回復したが、それ以降物
価は再び下がり続け、1932年7月にやっと最終的な底値に達した。これはどう計ってもアメリカ合衆国で最長期間の市場の衰退である。
1930年の不景気から1931年-1932年の大恐慌への遷移の為に、全く異なる要因が役割を果たしたのである[48]。
保護貿易主義
スムート・ホーリー法にみられるような保護貿易主義は、保護貿易主義政策をとってその結果近隣窮乏化政策に至った国々とともに、世
界恐慌の原因としてしばしば挙げられる[49][50]。スムート・ホーリー法は農家の債務不履行を招いており、特に農業に対して有害であっ
た。この出来事により中西部や西部での取り付けが起こったか悪化したかして、その結果銀行機構が崩壊した。1000人以上の経済学者
が署名した嘆願書が連邦政府に提出され、その嘆願書中でスムート・ホーリー法が経済に壊滅的な影響をもたらすという警告がなされ
た; しかし、これによってスムート・ホーリー法の議会通過が覆ることはなかった。
変動相場制ではなく金本位制をとる国で保護貿易主義が採用されたことを鑑み、保護貿易主義は恐慌の原因ではなく恐慌に対する「反
応」であったと主張する経済学者もいる[50]: 金本位制をとる国々は利率を切り下げたり最後の貸し手となったりすることができなかった、
というのはそれらの国々はいずれ金を切らすが、金本位制を取らない国々は利率を切り下げて不換紙幣を印刷することができるからで
ある。この解釈の下では、保護貿易主義は、金融政策が金本位制に縛られている国々の貿易条件を変化させるのに一役買ったといえ
る。
国際的な債権構造
1918年に終戦を迎えると、ヨーロッパの国でアメリカ合衆国と提携している国は全てアメリカの銀行から多額の借金をし、その借金の総
額はそれらの国々の大戦で蕩尽された国庫では支払いきれないほどになった。これが、連合国がドイツやオーストリア・ハンガリーに対し
て(ウッドロウ・ウィルソンを驚嘆させたほどの)賠償金を要求した理由の一つである。連合国の信ずるところによれば、賠償金のおかげで
連合国は負債を清算する目途がたつはずだった。しかし、ドイツとオーストリア・ハンガリー自身が戦後に深刻な経済危機に陥っていた;
連合国が負債を支払えない以上にドイツとオーストリア・ハンガリーが賠償金を支払えないという状況であった。
債務国は1920年代にアメリカ合衆国に負債の免除か少なくとも負債の軽減を行うことを強く要求した。対するアメリカ政府はその要求を
拒否した。代わりに、アメリカの銀行が欧州諸国に対して大規模な貸し付けを始めた。そのため、負債(と賠償金)は古い負債を増額させ
て新しい負債を積み重ねることによってのみ支払われる。1920年代後半には、特にアメリカ経済が1929年以降に弱体化してからは、欧
州諸国がアメリカからさらに金を借りるのが困難になった。同時に、アメリカの高い関税によって、欧州諸国が商品をアメリカ市場で売る
のが非常に困難になった。借金を払い戻すために貿易によって収入を得ることもできず、欧州諸国は債務不履行を起こし始めた。
1920年代後半になると、ヨーロッパのアメリカに対する商品需要は減少し始めた。これは、ヨーロッパの産業・農業の生産性が増したから
というのもあるし、いくつかの欧州諸国(最も顕著なのはヴァイマル共和制下のドイツ)が深刻な経済危機にあえいでいて外国の商品を買
う余裕がなかったからというのもある。しかし、1920年代後半にヨーロッパ経済を不安定化させた主原因は、第一次世界大戦の余波の中
で起きた国際的債権構造である。
スムート・ホーリー法のような関税障壁によって戦争負債の支払いが致命的に妨害された。アメリカ合衆国の高関税の結果、ある種の循
環のみによって賠償金や戦争支払いの続行がなされた。1920年代に、かつての連合国は主にドイツの賠償金支払いによって得られた
資金によって戦争負債を分割支払いし、ドイツはアメリカ合衆国とイギリスからの私的な借金によってのみ支払うことができた。同様に、
アメリカが海外に投資したドルのみによって諸外国がアメリカの輸出品を購入することができた。
1929年の株式市場急落に続く流動性の奪い合いの中、ヨーロッパからアメリカへ資金が回収され、ヨーロッパの脆弱な経済が砕け散っ
た。
1931年までに、世界は近現代で最悪の恐慌によってがたつき、賠償金や戦争負債の構造全体が崩壊した。
10億固定ドル価による1920年-1940年のアメリカ合衆国の年毎
のGDPと長期間の趨勢
集団動力学
1939年に、著名な経済学者アルヴィン・ハンセンが恐慌と連動して人口増加率が減少すると主張した[51]。同じ説が1978年の雑誌記事で
マニトバ大学の経済学者クラレンス・バーバーによって主張された。一種のハロッド・ドーマーモデルを用いて世界恐慌を分析し、彼はこう
述べている:
「このモデルでは、ハロッドの自然成長率の減少を生み出す状況に、より具体的には人口増加率、労働力増加率、生産性・技術発
展性の増加率が正当な成長率以下にまで減少している中に、深刻な恐慌の起源を探ることになる[52]。
1920年代の「生産性成長率」の減少の「はっきりした証拠はない」が、同時期の人口増加率現象の「はっきりした証拠」はあるとバーバー
は述べている。深刻な恐慌を引き起こすうえで十分重要な「自然成長率」の減少は人口増加率現象によって起きたのであろうと彼は述べ
ている[52]。
バーバーは、おそらく人口増加率の減少が住宅需要に影響したのだろうと述べ、これが1920年代に起こったことと見受けられると主張し
ている。かれはこう結論している:
「農家以外の家庭の急速で非常に大規模な増加率減少こそが明らかに、1926年以降のアメリカ合衆国の住宅建築界に起こったこ
とである。そしてこの減少が、ボルチとピルグリムが主張し続けているように、1929年の都心の大恐慌への転換の最も重要な一要
因なのであろう[53]。」
1920年代の人口増加率現象の原因の中には1910年以降の出産率低下[54]や移民の減少がある。移民の減少は主に1920年代に大幅な
移民抑制策がとられたことにある。1921年に緊急移民制限法が議会を通過し、続いて1924年移民法が制定された。
経済政策の役割
放任清算主義
今日の主流派経済学派の考えでは、政府は広く名目上の累計を安定した
成長傾向に留めておくよう努力すべきだった(新しい古典派やマネタリストに
とって、基準は名目マネーサプライである; ケインズ経済学派にとって、基
準は名目総需要それ自体である)。名目マネーストックと総名目需要を急落
しないよう保つために、恐慌期には、中央銀行は銀行機構に流動性を注入
するべきであり、政府は税率を切り下げ消費を促進すべきであった[55]。
連邦政府と連邦準備制度は1929年-1932年にこれを行わず、世界恐慌へと
陥った。経済史家の間で一般的になってきている説では、連邦準備制度の
政策決定者たちの清算主義理論への執着が破滅的な結果を招いたとされ
る[56]。「清算主義」の存在が世界恐慌という宿痾と戦わない公共政策を決
定する動機づけをするうえで重要な役割を果たした。フーヴァー大統領はこ
う書いている:[57]
“ メロン財務長官に率いられた放任清算主義者たちが[...]政
府は手を出さずにスランプ自己清算するのに任せるべきだ
と感じている。メロン氏はたった一つの方策を持っている:
「労働を清算せよ、株式を清算せよ、農家を清算せよ、不動
産を清算せよ」[...]「それによってシステムから腐敗が排除
される。高額の生命、高い生命は低下する。人々はより働
き、より道徳的に生活するようになる。価値観が調節され、
人々を楽しませることが競争力に劣る人々の破滅を防ぐ。」”
「ケインジアン革命」以前は、このような清算主義理論が経済学者のとる一般的立場であり、フリードリヒ・ハイエク、ライオネル・ロビン
ズ、ヨーゼフ・シュンペーター、シーモア・ハリスといった経済学者によってこの理論が主張・発展させられた[58]。清算主義者によれば恐慌
は良薬である。恐慌の機能は、非生産的な使用から生産の要因(資本と労働)を解放するために、技術的発展のために時代遅れとなり失
敗した投資・ビジネスを清算することだとされた。それらの要因は技術的に活発な経済分野に回された。彼らは1920年-1921年の恐慌に
言及して、この恐慌は1920年代後半の繁栄の基礎を築いたと主張した。彼らは(1921年に既に実行されていた)デフレ政策をとることを要
求し、この政策は資本・労働力を非生産的な活動から解放して新たな経済的バブルの基礎を築くのに使うものだと主張した。経済の自己
調節が大量の倒産を起こすとしても、そうなるのに任せておくべきだと清算主義者たちは主張した[59]。というのは、聖餐過程を延期するこ
とは徒に社会的コストを増大させるだけだと彼らが考えていたからである。シュンペーターの著作によれば、それは[60]
“ [...]回復は、ひとりでに起こったときにのみ健全であると私たちに信じさせてくれる。人工的な刺激のみによるいかなる復
活も、十分に恐慌の働きが行き届かない部分を残し、環境不適応だった部分が消化され切らずに残った部分に対してそ
れ自体の新たな環境不適応が加えられ、それがまた生産を必要とするようになり、後々に別の[より悪い)危機によって商
業を脅かすのである。”
清算主義者の期待に反して、株式資本の大部分は世界恐慌一年目に転換・消去されなかった。オリヴィエ・ブランチャードとローレンス・
サマーズの研究によれば、1933年までに不景気によって1924年以前のレベルの資本蓄積が起こった[61]。
ジョン・メイナード・ケインズやミルトン・フリードマンといった経済学者は、清算主義理論から帰結する放置策が世界恐慌の深刻化に資し
たと主張している[62]。ケインズは嘲笑のレトリックによって、ハイエク、ロビンズ、シュンペーターを以下のように表すことで清算主義思想
の信用を失わせようとした。
“ [...]禁欲的・清教徒的な心根が[世界恐慌を][...]彼らの言うところの「過膨張」にたいする不可避にして望ましい報いとして
扱う[...]。それは、過剰な繁栄が続く全体的な倒産によってバランスがとられなかったときに、不正な富に対して起こる勝
利だと彼らは感じている。自分たちが丁重にも「延期された清算」と呼ぶものが自分たちを正してくれることを望むと彼ら
は述べている。彼らが我々に述べるところによると、清算は未だ完了していない。しかしやがては完了する。そして清算
が完了するのに十分な時間がたてば、全ては再び我々にとって良くなる[...]
”
ミルトン・フリードマンは、こういった「危険なナンセンス」はシカゴ大学では決して教えられていないこと、なぜ(このナンセンスが教えられ
ている)ハーヴァードで若く明敏な経済学者達が自分たちの師のマクロ経済学を否定してケインジアンに転向するのかを自分は分かって
いること、を述べた[63]。彼はこう書いている:
“ 私が思うにオーストリア学派の景気循環理論は世界に大きな悪影響をもたらした。あなたがキー・ポイントたる1930年代
に戻れば、ロンドンにオーストリア学派がはびこっているのが見られて、ハイエクやライオネル・ロビンズに世界が景気の
底にあるのを放置しろと言われるだろう。あなたはそれに従って景気が自己回復するに任せることになるだろう。それに
対して何かをすることは許されない。何をしてもより悪くなるだけなのだから。[...]私が思うにこの種の放置策に焚き付けら
れて、イギリスでもアメリカでも彼らは害を為したのである[64]。”
経済学者ローレンス・H・ホワイトは、ハイエクとロビンズが1930年代初期のデフレ政策に積極的には反対しなかったことを認めたが、そ
れにも関わらず、ハイエクが清算主義の唱道者であったというミルトン・フリードマン、ジェームズ・ブラッドフォード・デロングその他の主張
に挑戦した。ハイエクとロビンズの景気循環理論(後に今日知られているようなオーストリア景気循環理論に発展する)は実はマネーサプ
ライの強い引き締めを許すような金融政策とは矛盾するものだったとホワイトは主張する。それにもかかわらず、世界恐慌の際にはハイ
エクは「1929年-1932年の強いデフレと名目収入の萎縮に曖昧な態度をとった[65]」とホワイトは述べている。1975年の講話で、ハイエクは
自身が40年以上前に中央銀行のデフレ政策に反対しなかったことの非を認め、曖昧な理由をとったことの理由を説明した: 「当時私はあ
る程度短期間のデフレの過程は、経済が機能することと相容れないと私が考えていた賃金の硬直性を破壊すると信じていた[66]。」その
三年後、ハイエクは世界恐慌初期の連邦の突然のマネーサプライの引き締めと連邦が銀行に流動性を供給するのに失敗したことを強く
批判した:
“ 「一たび急落が起こると連邦準備制度が愚かなデフレ政策に走ったという点に関して私はミルトン・フリードマンに同意す
る。私は単にインフレに反対しているのではなく、デフレにも反対している。だから、もう一度、間違って計画された金融政
策が恐慌を引き延ばす[67]。”
オーストリア学派の政府膨張論
消費の増大
フーヴァーが連邦政府の消費を50%引き上げたのは効果的だった。ほとんどの増大が1932年に起こり、それに同調して長い不景気が
ゆっくりと終わりを迎えた。オーストリア経済学派の中でも自由銀行制派に属する経済学者スティーヴン・ホーウィッツは、短い不景気だっ
たはずのものを長引かせて「大恐慌」にしてしまったとしてフーヴァーの消費を責めている:
短い不景気に終わるはずだったものを、より深刻で、ずっと長い大恐慌に変えてしまったという批判をハーヴァート・フーヴァーはう
まく捌いている[...]彼は恐慌と戦うために政府の役割を大きく拡張した[...]その結果は、不幸なことに(しかし驚くべきことではなく)、
火と上手く戦ったというよりもむしろ炎を煽った[68]。
デイヴィッド・ワインバーガーは、このアプローチを、ウィルソンの強い連邦政府が引き起こした恐慌の下で経済を劇的に刺激したと彼が
述べた(正当なチャートにおいても見られる)クーリッジ政権下の消費・税・赤字の切り下げと対比した[69]。クーリッジ政権の商務長官とし
てフーヴァーが消費増大とクーリッジの下での規制を奨励したが、多くの部分を1929年に彼自身が実行したことに彼は注目する[70]。GDP
に占める連邦の消費が成長し続けていたことを発見したランダル・グレゴリー・ホルコムが述べているように、フーヴァーの下でのこの大
成長はフーヴァーによる景気下降で歳入を減らしたとしても事実連邦準備制度の下で以上の事がなされたことは明らかだという[71]。
新たな公的規制
著書『アメリカの世界恐慌』、『ハーバート・フーヴァーの恐慌』その他において、マリー・ロスバードは、フーヴァーが示した産業・農業・雇
用といった分野における新たな連邦規制の一覧を提示したが、彼はそれを世界恐慌をもたらした連邦準備制度の干渉主義と結びつけて
述べた[72]。
税率の引き上げ
1932年にフーヴァーは歳入法を制定して税率を劇的に引き上げた。彼はあらゆる層に対する税を引き上げ、最貧困層に対する税を三倍
にして富裕層に対する税率を25%から63%に上げた[73][74]。この高率の税は会計年度であり長い不景気が終わった年に同調して支払わ
れた。
関連項目
◾ 政治哲学
◾ 世界恐慌のタイムライン
脚注
1. ^ Keen 2000, p.198.
2. ^ Paul Krugman, "Who Was Milton Friedman?" New York Review of
Books Volume 32, Number 32 · February 3, 2007 online community
(http://www.nybooks.com/articles/19857)
3. ^ Friedman 1965, p.4.
4. ^ The History of Economic Downturns in the US -- But Now You
Know.net (http://butnowyouknow.wordpress.com/those-who-fail-tolearn-
from-history/history-of-economic-downturns-in-the-us/)
5. ^ * Bruner, Robert F.; Carr, Sean D. (2007), The Panic of 1907:
Lessons Learned from the Market's Perfect Storm, Hoboken, New
Jersey: John Wiley & Sons, ISBN 978-0-470-15263-8
6. ^ Gold Standards and the Real Bills Doctrine in US Monetary Policy,
Richard H Timberlake, published in Econ Journal Watch, August
2005 --
http://www.econjournalwatch.org/pdf/TimberlakeIntellectualTyrannyAugust2005.pdf
7. ^ Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar
publishing, 2003, ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 11
8. ^ Ben Bernanke, "Non-monetary effects of the financial crisis in the
propagation of the Great Depression", (1983) American Economic
Review . Am 73#3 257–76.
9. ^ Friedman 2007, p.15.
10. ^ (Samuelson 1948, p. 353)
11. ^ Samuelson, Friedman, and monetary policy
(http://krugman.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/12/14/samuelson-friedmanand-
monetary-policy/), Paul Krugman, New York Times Blog,
December 14, 2009
12. ^ Murray Rothbard, America's Great Depression (Ludwig von Mises
Institute, 2000), pp. 159-163.
13. ^ Rothbard, America's Great Depression, pp. 19-21"
14. ^ Rothbard, A History of Money and Banking in the United States,
pp.293-294.
15. ^ White, Clash of Economic Ideas, p. 94. See alsoWhite, Lawrence
(2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?”.
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751–768.
doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x (http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%
2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
16. ^ F. A. Hayek, interviewed by Diego Pizano July, 1979 published in:
Diego Pizano, Conversations with Great Economists: Friedrich A.
Hayek, John Hicks, Nicholas Kaldor, Leonid V. Kantorovich, Joan
Robinson, Paul A.Samuelson, Jan Tinbergen (Jorge Pinto Books,
2009).
17. ^ http://www.marxists.org/archive/corey/1934/decline/index.html
18. ^ [1]
(http://www.johnmauldin.com/images/uploads/pdf/mwo071811.pdf)
Several graphs of total debt to GDP can be found on the Internet.
19. ^ a b c d e f g Jerome, Harry (1934). Mechanization in Industry,
National Bureau of Economic Research
20. ^ Hansen, Alvin (1939). “Economic Progress and Declining
Population Growth”. American Economic Review' 29 (March)
21. ^ a b c Fisher, Irving (October 1933). “The Debt-Deflation Theory of
Great Depressions”. Econometrica (The Econometric Society) 1 (4):
337–357. doi:10.2307/1907327 (http://dx.doi.org/10.2307%
2F1907327). JSTOR 1907327 (http://www.jstor.org/stable/1907327).
22. ^ Fortune, Peter (Sept-Oct, 2000). “Margin Requirements, Margin
Loans, and Margin Rates: Practice and Principles - analysis of history
of margin credit regulations - Statistical Data
Included” (http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m3937/is_2000_Sept-
Oct/ai_80855422/pg_3/?tag=content;col1). New England Economic
Review.
23. ^ a b “Bank Failures
(http://www.livinghistoryfarm.org/farminginthe30s/money_08.html)”.
Living History Farm. 2008年5月22日閲覧。
24. ^ "Friedman and Schwartz, Monetary History of the United States",
352
25. ^ Bernanke, Ben S (June 1983). “Non-Monetary Effects of the
Financial Crisis in the Propagation of the Great Depression”. The
American Economic Review (The American Economic Association)
73 (3): 257–276. JSTOR 1808111
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/1808111).
26. ^ Mishkin, Fredric (December 1978). “The Household Balance and
the Great Depression”. Journal of Economic History 38 (04): 918–37.
doi:10.1017/S0022050700087167 (http://dx.doi.org/10.1017%
2FS0022050700087167).
27. ^ a b Bell, Spurgeon (1940). Productivity, Wages and National
Income , The Institute of Economics of the Brookings Institution
28. ^ [|Yergin, Daniel
(https://www.cera.com/aspx/cda/public1/about/expertise/personPopup.aspx?
iAuthorPK=112)] (1992). The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money $
Power.
29. ^ a b Beaudreau, Bernard C. (1996). Mass Production, the Stock
Market Crash and the Great Depression. New York, Lincoln,
Shanghi: Authors Choice Press.
30. ^ “Hours of Work in U.S. History
(http://eh.net/encyclopedia/article/whaples.work.hours.us)” (2010年).
2012年8月28日閲覧。
31. ^ Whaples, Robert (1991, June). The Shortening of the American
Work Week: An Economic and Historical Analysis of Its Context,
Causes, and Consequences, The Journal of Economic History, Vol.
51, No. 2; pp. 454-457
32. ^ “Technological Change and Economic Growth the Interwar Years
and the 1990s (http://www.econ.yale.edu/seminars/echist/eh04/field-
041006.pdf)” (2004年). 2012年8月28日閲覧。
33. ^ Hubbert, M. King (1940).
http://www.scribd.com/doc/22289589/Man-Hours-and-Distribution-
M-King-Hubbert Man Hours and Distribution , Derived from Man
Hours: A Declining Quantity, Technocracy, Series A, No. 8, August
1936 (http://www.)
34. ^ Jerome, Harry (1934). Mechanization in Industry, National Bureau
of Economic Research<For the several industries studied industry
expansion offset most of the productivity gains that would otherwise
resulted in many more job losses than actually occurred. To prevent
rising unemployment the laid off workers would have to have
changed industries, but it was noted that even if workers were
successful at such a change the time typically took 18 months or
more. The employment statistics for the 1930 census reflect
conditions after the start of the depression so the actual employment
situation prior to the depression is unknown.>
35. ^ Stiglitz, Joseph (2011), “The Book of
Jobs” (http://www.vanityfair.com/politics/2012/01/stiglitzdepression-
201201), Vanity Fair 23/12/2011閲覧。
36. ^ Ayres, R. U.; Ayres, L. W.; Warr, B. (2002). Exergy, Power and
Work in the U. S. Economy 1900-1998, Insead’s Center For the
Management of Environmental Resources, 2002/52/EPS/CMER
(http://terra2000.free.fr/downloads/expowork.pdf)<Fig. 4 in
Appendix>From one-sixth to one-quarter of all land had been used to
grow animal feed.
37. ^ General Motors and the Decline of Streetcars
(http://debunkportland.com/printables/TQOrigin.pdf)
38. ^ David M. Kennedy, 'Freedom From Fear, The American People in
Depression and War 1929 - 1945, Oxford University Press, 1999,
ISBN 0-19-503834-7, p. 122, 123
39. ^ Dorfman,1959
40. ^ Allgoewer, Elisabeth (May 2002). “Underconsumption theories and
Keynesian economics. Interpretations of the Great
Depression” (http://www.vwa.unisg.ch/RePEc/usg/dp2002/dp0214allgoewer_ganz.pdf).
Discussion paper no. 2002-14.
41. ^ Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA
1890–1954, Hodder Education, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p.
108
42. ^ Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA
1890–1954, Hodder Education, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p.
108
43. ^ The Road to Plenty (1928)
44. ^ Eichengreen 1992, p.xi
45. ^ Bernanke 2002, p.80
46. ^ Gold Standards and the Real Bills Doctrine in U.S. Monetary
Policy, RICHARD H. TIMBERLAKE
http://www.econjournalwatch.org/pdf/TimberlakeIntellectualTyrannyAugust2005.pdf
47. ^ Parker, p.49.
48. ^ White, 1990.
49. ^ Protectionism and the Great Depression
(http://krugman.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/11/30/protectionism-andthe-
great-depression/), Paul Krugman, New York Times, November
30, 2009
50. ^ a b The protectionist temptation: Lessons from the Great Depression
for today (http://voxeu.org/index.php?q=node/3280), VOX, Barry
Eichengreen, Douglas Irwin, 17 March 2009
51. ^ Hansen, Alvin (1939). Economic Progress and Declining
Population Growth. ISBN 978-1162557823<Originally printed in a
journal. Reprinted 2004, 2010>
52. ^ a b Barber, Clarence L. "On the Origins of the Great Depression",
Southern Economic Journal, January, 1978, 44(3), pp. 432-456.
53. ^ Barber, Clarence L. "On the Origins of the Great Depression",
Southern Economic Journal, January 1978, 44(3), pp. 432-456. See
also Bolch, B. W. and J. D. Pilgrim, "A Reappraisal of Some Factors
Associated with Fluctuations in the United States in the Interwar
Period." Southern Economic Journal, January 1973, pp. 327-44.
54. ^ Longman, Philip (2004). The Empty Cradle: How Falling
Birthrates Threaten World Prosperity And What to Do About It.
p. 87. ISBN 0-465-05050-6.
55. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 1
56. ^ White, Lawrence (2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the
Great Depression?”. Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751
–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x
(http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
57. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 1
58. ^ Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar
publishing, 2003, ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 9
59. ^ Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar
publishing, 2003, ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 9
60. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 1
61. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 33
62. ^ White, Lawrence (2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the
Great Depression?”. Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751
–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x
(http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
63. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 1
64. ^ White, Lawrence (2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the
Great Depression?”. Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751
–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x
(http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
65. ^ Lawrence White, The Clash of Economic Ideas: The Great Policy
Debates and Experiments of the 20th Century (Cambridge University
Press), p. 94.
66. ^ White, Clash of Economic Ideas, p. 94. See alsoWhite, Lawrence
(2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?”.
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751–768.
doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x (http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%
2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
67. ^ F. A. Hayek, interviewed by Diego Pizano July, 1979 published in:
Diego Pizano, Conversations with Great Economists: Friedrich A.
Hayek, John Hicks, Nicholas Kaldor, Leonid V. Kantorovich, Joan
Robinson, Paul A.Samuelson, Jan Tinbergen (Jorge Pinto Books,
2009).
68. ^ Herbert Hoover, Father of the New Deal, by Steven Horwitz
http://www.cato.org/pubs/bp/bp122.pdf
69. ^ Does ‘Austerity’ Work? by David Weinberger
http://blog.heritage.org/2011/10/27/does-austerity-work/
70. ^ Lessons from Economic Recessions II- The Forgotten Recession of
1920 http://conservativehideout.com/wordpress/2011/07/05/lessonsfrom-
economic-recessions-ii-the-forgotten-recession-of-1920/
71. ^ The Growth of the Federal Government in the 1920s, Randall G.
Holcombe http://www.cato.org/pubs/journal/cj16n2-2.html
72. ^ Hoover's Attack on Laissez-Faire, by Murray Rothbard
http://mises.org/daily/2902#2
73. ^ The Concise Encyclopedia of Economics: The Great Depression
http://www.econlib.org/library/Enc/GreatDepression.html
74. ^ http://www.cato.org/pubs/bp/bp122.pdf
参考文献
◾ Secular Stagnation and Great Depression, R. L. Norman, Jr. (http://www.secularstagnation.com)
◾ Dorfman, Joseph (1959). Economic Mind in American Civilizationvol 4 and 5 cover the ideas of all American economists of 1918-
1933.
◾ Friedman, Milton and Anna Jacobson Schwartz, A Monetary History of the United States, 1867-1960 (1963)
◾ Keen, Steve 2001. Debunking Economics Pluto Press Australia Limited Sydney, Australia
◾ Meltzer, Allan H. 2003 A History of the Federal Reserve Volume I: 1913-1951 Chicago University Press, Chicago, IL
◾ Rothbard, Murray N. 1963 America's Great Depression D. Van Nostrand Company, Princeton, NJ
◾ Rothbard, Murray N. A History of Money and Banking in the United States: The Colonial Era to World War II (2002)
◾ Samuelson, Paul (1948). Economics.
◾ White, Eugene N. "The Stock Market Boom and Crash of 1929 Revisited" Journal of Economic Perspectives, Vol. 4, No. 2 (Spring,
1990), pp. 67–83; examines different theories
関連文献
世界
◾ Ambrosius, G. and W. Hibbard. A Social and Economic History of Twentieth-Century Europe (1989)
◾ Bordo, Michael, and Anna J. Schwartz, eds. A Retrospective on the Classical Gold Standard, 1821–1931 (1984) (National Bureau of
Economic Research Conference Report)
◾ Bordo, Michael et al. eds. The Gold Standard and Related Regimes: Collected Essays (1999)
◾ Brown, Ian. The Economies of Africa and Asia in the Inter-War Depression (1989)
◾ Davis, Joseph S. The World Between the Wars, 1919-39: An Economist's View (1974)
◾ Eichengreen, Barry. Golden Fetters: The Gold Standard and the Great Depression, 1919–1939 (NBER Series on Long-Term Factors
in Economic Development), 1996, ISBN 0-19-510113-8
◾ Eichengreen, Barry, and Marc Flandreau, eds. The Gold Standard in Theory and History (1997)
◾ Feinstein, Charles H. The European Economy Between the Wars (1997)
◾ Garraty, John A. The Great Depression: An Inquiry into the Causes, Course, and Consequences of the Worldwide Depression of the
Nineteen-Thirties, as Seen by Contemporaries and in Light of History (1986)
◾ Garraty, John A. Unemployment in History (1978)
◾ Garside, William R. Capitalism in Crisis: International Responses to the Great Depression (1993)
◾ Haberler, Gottfried. The World Economy, Money, and the Great Depression 1919-1939 (1976)
◾ Hall, Thomas E. and J. David Ferguson. The Great Depression: An International Disaster of Perverse Economic Policies (1998)
◾ Kaiser, David E. Economic Diplomacy and the Origins of the Second World War: Germany, Britain, France and Eastern Europe,
1930-1939 (1980)
◾ Kindleberger, Charles P. The World in Depression, 1929-1939 (1983);
◾ Tipton, F. and R. Aldrich. An Economic and Social History of Europe, 1890–1939 (1987)
◾ Barber, Clarence Lyle (University of Manitoba) "On the Origins of the Great Depression" (1978)
アメリカ合衆国
◾ Ben S. Bernanke. Essays on the Great Depression (2000)
◾ Bernstein, Michael A. The Great Depression: Delayed Recovery and Economic Change in America, 1929-1939 (1989) focus on lowgrowth
and high-growth industries
◾ Bordo, Michael D., Claudia Goldin, and Eugene N. White, eds. The Defining Moment: The Great Depression and the American
Economy in the Twentieth Century (1998). Advanced economic history.
◾ Chandler, Lester. America's Greatest Depression (1970). economic history overview.
◾ De Long, Bradford. Liquidation Cycles and the Great Depression (1991)
◾ Jensen, Richard J. "The Causes and Cures of Unemployment in the Great Depression," Journal of Interdisciplinary History 19 (1989)
553-83. online at JSTOR in most academic libraries
◾ McElvaine, Robert S. The Great Depression (2nd ed 1993) social history
◾ Mitchell, Broadus. Depression Decade: From New Era through New Deal, 1929-1941 (1964), standard economic history overview.
◾ Parker, Randall E. Reflections on the Great Depression (2002) interviews with 11 leading economists
◾ Salsman, Richard M. “The Cause and Consequences of the Great Depression” in The Intellectual Activist, ISSN 0730-2355. Mr.
Salsman argues that the Great Depression was fundamentally caused by statist government policy.
◾ Singleton, Jeff. The American Dole: Unemployment Relief and the Welfare State in the Great Depression (2000)
(http://www.questia.com/PM.qst?a=o&d=24419587)
◾ Warren, Harris Gaylord. Herbert Hoover and the Great Depression (1959).
連邦準備制度の役割
◾ Chandler, Lester V. American Monetary Policy, 1928-41. (1971).
◾ Epstein, Gerald and Thomas Ferguson. "Monetary Policy, Loan Liquidation and Industrial Conflict: Federal Reserve System Open
Market Operations in 1932." Journal of Economic History 44 (December 1984): 957-84. in JSTOR
◾ Kubik, Paul J., "Federal Reserve Policy during the Great Depression: The Impact of Interwar Attitudes regarding Consumption and
Consumer Credit." Journal of Economic Issues. Vo: 30. Issue: 3. Publication Year: 1996. pp 829+.
◾ Mayhew, Anne. "Ideology and the Great Depression: Monetary History Rewritten." Journal of Economic Issues 17 (June 1983): 353-
60.
◾ Meltzer, Allan H. A History of the Federal Reserve, Volume 1: 1913-1951 (2004) the standard scholarly history
◾ Steindl, Frank G. Monetary Interpretations of the Great Depression. (1995).
◾ Temin, Peter. Did Monetary Forces Cause the Great Depression? (1976).
◾ Wicker, Elmus R. "A Reconsideration of Federal Reserve Policy during the 1920-1921 Depression," Journal of Economic History
(1966) 26: 223-238, in JSTOR
◾ Wicker, Elmus. Federal Reserve Monetary Policy, 1917-33. (1966).
◾ Wells, Donald R. The Federal Reserve System: A History (2004)
◾ Wueschner, Silvano A. Charting Twentieth-Century Monetary Policy: Herbert Hoover and Benjamin Strong, 1917-1927 Greenwood
Press. (1999)
Template:GreatDepr nav
「https://ja.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=世界恐慌の原因&oldid=60902860」から取得
カテゴリ: 翻訳中途 - 2016年2月1920年代世界恐慌経済恐慌金本位制出来事の原因
◾ 最終更新 2016年8月25日 (木) 17:12 （日時は個人設定で未設定ならばUTC）。
◾ テキストはクリエイティブ・コモンズ表示-継承ライセンスの下で利用可能です。追加の条件が適用される場合があります。
詳細は利用規約を参照してください。
USA annual real GDP from 1910 to 1960, with the years of the Great
Depression (1929–39) highlighted
Money supply decreased a lot between Black Tuedsay and the Bank
Holiday in March 1933 when there was massive bank runs across the
United States.
Causes of the Great Depression
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
The causes of the Great Depression in the early 20th century have been extensively discussed
by economists and remain a matter of active debate. They are part of the larger debate about
economic crises.
The specific economic events that took place during the Great Depression have been studied
thoroughly: a deflation in asset and commodity prices, dramatic drops in demand and credit, and
disruption of trade, ultimately resulting in widespread unemployment (over 13 million people
were unemployed by 1932) and hence poverty. However, historians lack consensus in
determining the causal relationship between various events and the government economic policy
in causing or ameliorating the Depression. The initial stock market crash triggered a "panic selloff"
that made the stock market go even lower.
Although a common belief is that the Great Depression was triggered by the 1929 crash of the
stock market, the stock market in 1929 had reached record fundamental valuations in spite of
deteriorating economic conditions such as rising unemployment, overproduction (excess
capacity), underconsumption and high debt. The timing of the crash coincided with news that the
proposed import tariff on manufactured products was losing support in Congress.[1]
Current theories may be broadly classified into two main points of view and several heterodox
points of view.
First, there are demand-driven theories, from Keynesian and institutional economists who argue
that the depression was caused by a widespread loss of confidence that led to underconsumption.
The demand-driven theories argue that the financial crisis following the 1929 crash led to a
sudden and persistent reduction in consumption and investment spending.[2] Once panic and
deflation set in, many people believed they could avoid further losses by keeping clear of the
markets. Holding money therefore became profitable as prices dropped lower and a given amount
of money bought ever more goods, exacerbating the drop in demand.
Second, there are the monetarists, who believe that the Great Depression started as an ordinary
recession, but that significant policy mistakes by monetary authorities (especially the Federal
Reserve) caused a shrinking of the money supply which greatly exacerbated the economic
situation, causing a recession to descend into the Great Depression. Related to this explanation are those who point to debt deflation causing those who borrow to owe
ever more in real terms.
There are also various heterodox theories that reject the explanations of the Keynesians and monetarists. Some new classical macroeconomists have argued that
various labor market policies imposed at the start caused the length and severity of the Great Depression. The Austrian school of economics focuses on the
macroeconomic effects of money supply and how central banking decisions can lead to malinvestment. Marxian economists view the Great Depression, with all other
economic crises, as a symptom of the classism and instability inherent in the capitalist model.
Contents
◾ 1 General theoretical reasoning
◾ 1.1 Mainstream theories
◾ 1.1.1 Keynesian
◾ 1.1.2 Monetarist
◾ 1.1.3 Additional modern nonmonetary explanations
◾ 1.1.3.1 Debt deflation
◾ 1.1.3.2 Expectations hypothesis
◾ 1.2 Heterodox theories
◾ 1.2.1 Austrian School
◾ 1.2.2 Marxian
◾ 2 Specific theories of cause
◾ 2.1 Non-debt deflation
◾ 2.2 Productivity or technology shock
◾ 2.3 Disparities in wealth and income
◾ 2.4 Gold Standard system
◾ 2.5 Financial institution structures
◾ 2.6 Protectionism
◾ 2.7 International Debt Structure
◾ 2.8 Population dynamics
◾ 3 Role of economic policy
◾ 3.1 Calvin Coolidge (1923–29)
◾ 3.2 Leave-it-alone liquidationism (1929–33)
◾ 3.2.1 Overview
◾ 3.2.2 Criticism
◾ 3.3 Herbert Hoover (1929–33)
◾ 3.3.1 Economic policy
◾ 3.3.2 Federal spending
◾ 3.3.3 Tax policy
◾ 3.4 Franklin Delano Roosevelt (1933–45)
◾ 3.4.1 Arguments for key to recovery
◾ 3.4.2 Arguments for prolongation of the Great Depression
◾ 4 See also
◾ 5 Notes
◾ 6 References
The Great Depression in a monetary
view.
◾ 7 Further reading
◾ 7.1 World
◾ 7.2 United States
◾ 7.3 Role of the United States Federal Reserve
General theoretical reasoning
The two classical competing theories of the Great Depression are the Keynesian (demand-driven) and the monetarist explanation. There are also various heterodox
theories that downplay or reject the explanations of the Keynesians and monetarists.
Economists and economic historians are almost evenly split as to whether the traditional monetary explanation that monetary forces were the primary cause of the
Great Depression is right, or the traditional Keynesian explanation that a fall in autonomous spending, particularly investment, is the primary explanation for the
onset of the Great Depression.[3] Today the controversy is of lesser importance since there is mainstream support for the debt deflation theory and the expectations
hypothesis that building on the monetary explanation of Milton Friedman and Anna Schwartz add non-monetary explanations.
There is consensus that the Federal Reserve  should have cut short the process of monetary deflation and banking collapse. If the FED had done that the
economic downturn would have been far less severe and much shorter.[4]
Mainstream theories
Keynesian
In his book The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money (1936), British economist John Maynard Keynes introduced concepts that were intended to help
explain the Great Depression. He argued that there are reasons why the self-correcting mechanisms that many economists claimed should work during a downturn
might not work.
One argument for a non-interventionist policy during a recession was that if consumption fell due to savings, the savings would cause the rate of interest to fall.
According to the classical economists, lower interest rates would lead to increased investment spending and demand would remain constant. However, Keynes argues
that there are good reasons why investment does not necessarily increase in response to a fall in the interest rate. Businesses make investments based on expectations
of profit. Therefore, if a fall in consumption appears to be long-term, businesses analyzing trends will lower expectations of future sales. Therefore, the last thing they
are interested in doing is investing in increasing future production, even if lower interest rates make capital inexpensive. In that case, the economy can be thrown into
a general slump due to a decline in consumption.[5] According to Keynes, this self-reinforcing dynamic is what occurred to an extreme degree during the Depression,
where bankruptcies were common and investment, which requires a degree of optimism, was very unlikely to occur. This view is often characterized by economists
as being in opposition to Say's Law.
The idea that reduced capital investment was a cause of the depression is a central theme in Secular stagnation theory.
Keynes argued that if the national government spent more money to recover the money spent by consumers and business firms, unemployment rates would fall. The
solution was for the Federal Reserve System to “create new money for the national government to borrow and spend” and to cut taxes rather than raising them, in
order for consumers to spend more, and other beneficial factors.[6] Hoover chose to do the opposite of what Keynes thought to be the solution and allowed the federal
government to raise taxes exceedingly to reduce the budget shortage brought upon by the depression. Keynes proclaimed that more workers could be employed by
decreasing interest rates, encouraging firms to borrow more money and make more products. Employment would prevent the government from having to spend any
more money by increasing the amount at which consumers would spend. Keynes’ theory was then confirmed by the length of the Great Depression within the United
States and the constant unemployment rate. Employment rates began to rise in preparation for World War II by increasing government spending. “In light of these
developments, the Keynesian explanation of the Great Depression was increasingly accepted by economists, historians, and politicians”.[6]
Monetarist
In their 1963 book A Monetary History of the United States, 1867–1960, Milton Friedman and Anna Schwartz laid out their
case for a different explanation of the Great Depression. Essentially, the Great Depression, in their view, was caused by the
fall of the money supply. Friedman and Schwartz write: "From the cyclical peak in August 1929 to a cyclical trough in March
1933, the stock of money fell by over a third." The result was what Friedman calls the "Great Contraction" — a period of
falling income, prices, and employment caused by the choking effects of a restricted money supply. Friedman and Schwartz
argue that people wanted to hold more money than the Federal Reserve was supplying. As a result, people hoarded money by
consuming less. This caused a contraction in employment and production since prices were not flexible enough to
immediately fall. The Fed's failure was in not realizing what was happening and not taking corrective action.[7]
After the Depression, the primary explanations of it tended to ignore the importance of the money supply. However, in the
monetarist view, the Depression was “in fact a tragic testimonial to the importance of monetary forces.”[8] In their view, the
failure of the Federal Reserve to deal with the Depression was not a sign that monetary policy was impotent, but that the
Federal Reserve implemented the wrong policies. They did not claim the Fed caused the depression, only that it failed to use
policies that might have stopped a recession from turning into a depression.
The U.S. economy during this period went through a number of cycles of boom and bust. The depressions often seemed to be set off by bank panics, the most
significant occurring in 1873, 1893, 1901, 1907, and 1920.[9] Before the 1913 establishment of the Federal Reserve, the banking system had dealt with these crises in
the U.S. (such as in the Panic of 1907) by suspending the convertibility of deposits into currency. Starting in 1893, there were growing efforts by financial institutions
and business men to intervene during these crises, providing liquidity to banks that were suffering runs. During the banking panic of 1907, an ad-hoc coalition
assembled by J. P. Morgan successfully intervened in this way, thereby cutting off the panic, which was likely the reason why the depression that would normally
have followed a banking panic did not happen this time. A call by some for a government version of this solution resulted in the establishment of the Federal Reserve.
[10]
But in 1928–32, the Federal Reserve did not act to provide liquidity to banks suffering runs. In fact, its policy contributed to the banking crisis by permitting a sudden
contraction of the money supply. During the Roaring Twenties, the central bank had set as its primary goal "price stability", in part because the governor of the New
York Federal Reserve, Benjamin Strong, was a disciple of Irving Fisher, a tremendously popular economist who popularized stable prices as a monetary goal. It had
kept the number of dollars at such an amount that prices of goods in society appeared stable. In 1928, Strong died, and with his death this policy ended, to be replaced
with a real bills doctrine requiring that all currency or securities have material goods backing them. This policy permitted the US money supply to fall by over a third
from 1929 to 1933.[11]
Crowd at New York's American Union
Bank during a bank run early in the Great
Depression.
Crowd gathering on Wall Street after the
1929 crash.
When this money shortage caused runs on banks, the Fed maintained its true bills policy, refusing to lend money to the banks in the way that had cut short the 1907
panic, instead allowing each to suffer a catastrophic run and fail entirely. This policy resulted in a series of bank failures in which one-third of all banks vanished.[12]
According to Ben Bernanke, the subsequent credit crunches led to waves of bankruptcies.[13] Friedman said that if a policy similar to 1907 had been followed during
the banking panic at the end of 1930, perhaps this would have stopped the vicious circle of the forced liquidation of assets at depressed prices. Consequently, the
banking panics of 1931, 1932, and 1933 might not have happened, just as suspension of convertibility in 1893 and 1907 had quickly ended the liquidity crises at the
time.”[14]
Monetarist explanations had been rejected in Samuelson's work Economics, writing "Today few economists regard Federal Reserve monetary policy as a panacea for
controlling the business cycle. Purely monetary factors are considered to be as much symptoms as causes, albeit symptoms with aggravating effects that should not be
completely neglected."[15] According to Keynesian economist Paul Krugman, the work of Friedman and Schwartz became dominant among mainstream economists
by the 1980s but should be reconsidered in light of Japan's Lost Decade of the 1990s.[16] The role of monetary policy in financial crises is in active debate regarding
the 2007–12 global financial crisis; see Causes of the 2007–12 global financial crisis.
Additional modern nonmonetary explanations
The monetary explanation has two weaknesses. First it is not able to explain why the demand for money was falling more rapidly than the supply during the initial
downturn in 1930-31.[17] Second it is not able to explain why in March 1933 a recovery took place although short term interest rates remained close to zero and the
Money supply was still falling. These questions are addressed by modern explanations that build on the monetary explanation of Milton Friedman and Anna
Schwartz but add non-monetary explanations.
Debt deflation
Total debt to GDP levels in the U.S. reached a high of just under 300% by the time of the Depression. This level of debt was
not exceeded again until near the end of the 20th century.[18]
Jerome (1934) gives an unattributed quote about finance conditions that allowed the great industrial expansion of the post
WW I period:
Probably never before in this country had such a volume of funds been available at such low rates for such a long
period.[19]
Furthermore, Jerome says that the volume of new capital issues increased at a 7.7% compounded annual rate from 1922
–29 at a time when the Standard Statistics Co.'s index of 60 high grade bonds yielded from 4.98% in 1923 to 4.47% in
1927.
There was also a real estate and housing bubble in the 1920s, especially in Florida, which burst in 1925. Alvin Hansen
stated that housing construction during the 1920s decade exceeded population growth by 25%.[20] See also:Florida land
boom of the 1920s
Irving Fisher argued that the predominant factor leading to the Great Depression was over-indebtedness and deflation.
Fisher tied loose credit to over-indebtedness, which fueled speculation and asset bubbles.[21] He then outlined nine factors
interacting with one another under conditions of debt and deflation to create the mechanics of boom to bust. The chain of
events proceeded as follows:
1. Debt liquidation and distress selling
2. Contraction of the money supply as bank loans are paid off
3. A fall in the level of asset prices
4. A still greater fall in the net worths of business, precipitating bankruptcies
5. A fall in profits
6. A reduction in output, in trade and in employment.
7. Pessimism and loss of confidence
8. Hoarding of money
9. A fall in nominal interest rates and a rise in deflation adjusted interest rates.[21]
During the Crash of 1929 preceding the Great Depression, margin requirements were only 10%.[22] Brokerage firms, in
other words, would lend $90 for every $10 an investor had deposited. When the market fell, brokers called in these loans,
which could not be paid back. Banks began to fail as debtors defaulted on debt and depositors attempted to withdraw
their deposits en masse, triggering multiple bank runs. Government guarantees and Federal Reserve banking regulations
to prevent such panics were ineffective or not used. Bank failures led to the loss of billions of dollars in assets.[23]
Outstanding debts became heavier, because prices and incomes fell by 20–50% but the debts remained at the same dollar
amount. After the panic of 1929, and during the first 10 months of 1930, 744 US banks failed. (In all, 9,000 banks failed
during the 1930s). By April 1933, around $7 billion in deposits had been frozen in failed banks or those left unlicensed
after the March Bank Holiday.[24]
Bank failures snowballed as desperate bankers called in loans, which the borrowers did not have time or money to repay.
With future profits looking poor, capital investment and construction slowed or completely ceased. In the face of bad
loans and worsening future prospects, the surviving banks became even more conservative in their lending.[23] Banks
built up their capital reserves and made fewer loans, which intensified deflationary pressures. A vicious cycle developed
and the downward spiral accelerated.
The liquidation of debt could not keep up with the fall of prices it caused. The mass effect of the stampede to liquidate increased the value of each dollar owed,
relative to the value of declining asset holdings. The very effort of individuals to lessen their burden of debt effectively increased it. Paradoxically, the more the
debtors paid, the more they owed.[21] This self-aggravating process turned a 1930 recession into a 1933 great depression.
Fisher's debt-deflation theory initially lacked mainstream influence because of the counter-argument that debt-deflation represented no more than a redistribution
from one group (debtors) to another (creditors). Pure re-distributions should have no significant macroeconomic effects.
Building on both the monetary hypothesis of Milton Friedman and Anna Schwartz as well as the debt deflation hypothesis of Irving Fisher, Ben Bernanke developed
an alternative way in which the financial crisis affected output. He builds on Fisher's argument that dramatic declines in the price level and nominal incomes lead to
increasing real debt burdens which in turn leads to debtor insolvency and consequently leads to lowered aggregate demand, a further decline in the price level then
results in a debt deflationary spiral. According to Bernanke, a small decline in the price level simply reallocates wealth from debtors to creditors without doing
damage to the economy. But when the deflation is severe falling asset prices along with debtor bankruptcies lead to a decline in the nominal value of assets on bank
balance sheets. Banks will react by tightening their credit conditions, that in turn leads to a credit crunch which does serious harm to the economy. A credit crunch
lowers investment and consumption and results in declining aggregate demand which additionally contributes to the deflationary spiral.[25][26][27]
Economist Steve Keen revived the Debt-Reset Theory after he accurately predicted the 2008 recession based on his analysis of the Great Depression, and recently
advised Congress to engage in debt-forgiveness or direct payments to citizens in order to avoid future financial events.[28] Some people support the Debt-Reset
Theory.[29][30][31]
Expectations hypothesis
Expectations have been a central element of macroeconomic models since the economic mainstream accepted the new neoclassical synthesis. While not rejecting that
it was inadequate demand that sustained the depression, according to Peter Temin, Barry Wigmore, Gauti B. Eggertsson and Christina Romer the key to recovery and
the end of the Great Depression was the successful management of public expectations. This thesis is based on the observation that after years of deflation and a very
severe recession, important economic indicators turned positive in March 1933, just as Franklin D. Roosevelt took office. Consumer prices turned from deflation to a
mild inflation, industrial production bottomed out in March 1933, investment doubled in 1933 with a turnaround in March 1933. There were no monetary forces to
explain that turnaround. Money supply was still falling and short term interest rates remained close to zero. Before March 1933, people expected a further deflation
and recession so that even interest rates at zero did not stimulate investment. But when Roosevelt announced major regime changes people began to expect inflation
and an economic expansion. With those expectations, interest rates at zero began to stimulate investment as planned. Roosevelt's fiscal and monetary policy regime
change helped to make his policy objectives credible. The expectation of higher future income and higher future inflation stimulated demand and investments. The
analysis suggests that the elimination of the policy dogmas of the gold standard, a balanced budget in times of crises and small government led endogenously to a
large shift in expectation that accounts for about 70–80 percent of the recovery of output and prices from 1933 to 1937. If the regime change had not happened and
the Hoover policy had continued, the economy would have continued its free fall in 1933, and output would have been 30 percent lower in 1937 than in 1933.
[32][33][34]
The recession of 1937–38, which slowed down economic recovery from the great depression, is explained by fears of the population that the moderate tightening of
the monetary and fiscal policy in 1937 would be first steps to a restoration of the pre March 1933 policy regime.[35]
Heterodox theories
Austrian School
Austrian economists argue that the Great Depression was the inevitable outcome of the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve during the 1920s. In their opinion,
the central bank's policy was an "easy credit policy" which led to an unsustainable credit-driven boom. In the Austrian view, the inflation of the money supply during
this period led to an unsustainable boom in both asset prices (stocks and bonds) and capital goods. By the time the Federal Reserve belatedly tightened monetary
policy in 1928, it was too late to avoid a significant economic contraction.[36] Austrians argue that government intervention after the crash of 1929 delayed the
market’s adjustment and made the road to complete recovery more difficult.[37][38]
Acceptance of the Austrian explanation of what primarily caused the Great Depression is compatible with either acceptance or denial of the Monetarist explanation.
Austrian economist Murray Rothbard, who wrote America's Great Depression (1963), rejected the Monetarist explanation. He criticized Milton Friedman's assertion
that the central bank failed to sufficiently increase the supply of money, claiming instead that the Federal Reserve did pursue an inflationary policy when, in 1932, it
purchased $1.1 billion of government securities, which raised its total holding to $1.8 billion. Rothbard says that despite the central bank's policies, "total bank
reserves only rose by $212 million, while the total money supply fell by $3 billion". The reason for this, he argues, is that the American populace lost faith in the
banking system and began hoarding more cash, a factor very much beyond the control of the Central Bank. The potential for a run on the banks caused local bankers
to be more conservative in lending out their reserves, which, according to Rothbard's argument, was the cause of the Federal Reserve's inability to inflate.[39]
Friedrich Hayek had criticised the FED and the Bank of England in the 1930s for not taking a more contractionary stance.[40] However, in 1975, Hayek admitted that
he made a mistake in the 1930s in not opposing the Central Bank's deflationary policy and stated the reason why he had been ambivalent: "At that time I believed that
a process of deflation of some short duration might break the rigidity of wages which I thought was incompatible with a functioning economy.[41] In 1978, he made it
clear that he agreed with the point of view of the Monetarists, saying, "I agree with Milton Friedman that once the Crash had occurred, the Federal Reserve System
pursued a silly deflationary policy", and that he was as opposed to deflation as he was to inflation.[42] Concordantly, economist Lawrence White argues that the
business cycle theory of Hayek is inconsistent with a monetary policy which permits a severe contraction of the money supply.
Hans Sennholz argued that most boom and busts that plagued the American economy in 1819-20, 1839–43, 1857–60, 1873–78, 1893–97, and 1920–21, were
generated by government creating a boom through easy money and credit, which was soon followed by the inevitable bust. The spectacular crash of 1929 followed
five years of reckless credit expansion by the Federal Reserve System under the Coolidge Administration. The passing of the Sixteenth Amendment, the passage of
The Federal Reserve Act, rising government deficits, the passage of the Hawley-Smoot Tariff Act, and the Revenue Act of 1932, exacerbated the crisis, prolonging it.
[43]
Marxian
Marxists generally argue that the Great Depression was the result of the inherent instability of the capitalist model.[44]
Specific theories of cause
Non-debt deflation
In addition to the debt deflation there was a component of productivity deflation that had been occurring since The Great Deflation of the last quarter of the 19th
century.[45] There may have also been a continuation of the correction to the sharp inflation caused by WW I.
Oil prices reached their all-time low in the early 1930s as production began from the East Texas Oil Field, the largest field ever found in the lower 48 states. With the
oil market oversupplied prices locally fell to below ten cents per barrel.[46]
Productivity or technology shock
In the first three decades of the 20th century productivity and economic output surged due in part to electrification, mass production and the increasing motorization
of transportation and farm machinery. Electrification and mass production techniques such as Fordism permanently lowered the demand for labor relative to
economic output.[1][47] By the late 1920s the resultant rapid growth in productivity and investment in manufacturing meant there was a considerable excess production
capacity.[48]
Sometime after the peak of the business cycle in 1923, more workers were displaced by productivity improvements than growth in the employment market could
meet, causing unemployment to slowly rise after 1925.[49] [1] Also, the work week fell slightly in the decade prior to the depression.[50][51][52] Wages did not keep up
with productivity growth, which led to the problem of underconsumption.[1]
Henry Ford and Edward A. Filene were among prominent businessmen who were concerned with overproduction and underconsumption. Ford doubled wages of his
workers in 1914. The over-production problem was also discussed in Congress, with Senator Reed Smoot proposing an import tariff, which became the Smoot
–Hawley Tariff Act. The Smoot–Hawley Tariff was enacted in June, 1930. The tariff was misguided because the U.S. had been running a trade account surplus
during the 1920s.[1]
Another effect of rapid technological change was that after 1910 the rate of capital investment slowed, primarily due to reduced investment in business structures.[47]
The depression led to additional large numbers of plant closings.[19]
It cannot be emphasized too strongly that the [productivity, output and employment] trends we are describing are long-time trends and were thoroughly
evident prior to 1929. These trends are in nowise the result of the present depression, nor are they the result of the World War. On the contrary, the
present depression is a collapse resulting from these long-term trends. — M. King Hubbert[53]
In the book Mechanization in Industry, whose publication was sponsored by the National Bureau of Economic Research, Jerome (1934) noted that whether
mechanization tends to increase output or displace labor depends on the elasticity of demand for the product.[19] In addition, reduced costs of production were not
always passed on to consumers. It was further noted that agriculture was adversely affected by the reduced need for animal feed as horses and mules were displaced
by inanimate sources of power following WW I. As a related point, Jerome also notes that the term "technological unemployment" was being used to describe the
labor situation during the depression.[19]
Some portion of the increased unemployment which characterized the post-War years in the United States may be attributed to the mechanization of
industries producing commodities of inelastic demand. — Fredrick C. Wells, 1934[19]
The dramatic rise in productivity of major industries in the U. S. and the effects of productivity on output, wages and the work week are discussed by a Brookings
Institution sponsored book.[45]
Corporations decided to lay off workers and reduced the amount of raw materials they purchased to manufacture their products. This decision was made to cut the
production of goods because of the amount of products that were not being sold.[6]
Joseph Stiglitz and Bruce Greenwald suggested that it was a productivity-shock in agriculture, through fertilizers, mechanization and improved seed, that caused the
drop in agricultural product prices. Farmers were forced off the land, further adding to the excess labor supply.[54]
The prices of agricultural products began to decline after WW I and eventually many farmers were forced out of business, causing the failure of hundreds of small
rural banks. Agricultural productivity resulting from tractors, fertilizers and hybrid corn was only part of the problem; the other problem was the change over from
horses and mules to internal combustion transportation. The horse and mule population began declining after WW 1, freeing up enormous quantities of land
previously used for animal feed.[19][55][56]
The rise of the internal combustion engine and increasing numbers of motorcars and buses also halted the growth of electric street railways.[57]
The years 1929 to 1941 had the highest total factor productivity growth in the history of the U. S., largely due to the productivity increases in public utilities,
transportation and trade.[58]
Disparities in wealth and income
Economists such as Waddill Catchings, William Trufant Foster, Rexford Tugwell, Adolph Berle (and later John Kenneth Galbraith), popularized a theory that had
some influence on Franklin D. Roosevelt.[59] This theory held that the economy produced more goods than consumers could purchase, because the consumers did not
have enough income.[60][61][62] According to this view, in the 1920s wages had increased at a lower rate than productivity growth, which had been high. Most of the
benefit of the increased productivity went into profits, which went into the stock market bubble rather than into consumer purchases. Thus workers did not have
enough income to absorb the large amount of capacity that had been added.[1]
According to this view, the root cause of the Great Depression was a global overinvestment while the level of wages and earnings from independent businesses fell
short of creating enough purchasing power. It was argued that government should intervene by an increased taxation of the rich to help make income more equal.
With the increased revenue the government could create public works to increase employment and ‘kick start’ the economy. In the USA the economic policies had
been quite the opposite until 1932. The Revenue Act of 1932 and public works programmes introduced in Hoover's last year as president and taken up by Roosevelt,
created some redistribution of purchasing power.[62][63]
The stock market crash made it evident that banking systems Americans were relying on were not dependable. Americans looked towards insubstantial banking units
for their own liquidity supply. As the economy began to fail, these banks were no longer able to support those who depended on their assets – they did not hold as
much power as the larger banks. During the depression, “three waves of bank failures shook the economy.”[64] The first wave came just when the economy was
heading in the direction of recovery at the end of 1930 and the beginning of 1931. The second wave of bank failures occurred “after the Federal Reserve System
raised the rediscount rate to staunch an outflow of gold”[64] around the end of 1931. The last wave, which began in the middle of 1932, was the worst and most
devastating, continuing “almost to the point of a total breakdown of the banking system in the winter of 1932–1933.”[64] The reserve banks led the United States into
an even deeper depression between 1931 and 1933, due to their failure to appreciate and put to use the powers they withheld – capable of creating money – as well as
the “inappropriate monetary policies pursued by them during these years”.[64]
Gold Standard system
New York stock market index
According to the gold standard theory of the Depression, the Depression was largely caused by the decision of most western nations after World War I to return to the
gold standard at the pre-war gold price. Monetary policy, according to this view, was thereby put into a deflationary setting that would over the next decade slowly
grind away at the health of many European economies.
This post-war policy was preceded by an inflationary policy during World War I, when many European nations abandoned the gold standard, forced by the enormous
costs of the war. This resulted in inflation because the supply of new money that was created was spent on war, not on investments in productivity to increase demand
that would have neutralized inflation. The view is that the quantity of new money introduced largely determines the inflation rate, and therefore, the cure to inflation
is to reduce the amount of new currency created for purposes that are destructive or wasteful, and do not lead to economic growth.
After the war, when America and the nations of Europe went back on the gold standard, most nations decided to return to the gold standard at the pre-war price.
When Britain, for example, passed the Gold Standard Act of 1925, thereby returning Britain to the gold standard, the critical decision was made to set the new price
of the Pound Sterling at parity with the pre-war price even though the pound was then trading on the foreign exchange market at a much lower price. At the time, this
action was criticized by John Maynard Keynes and others, who argued that in so doing, they were forcing a revaluation of wages without any tendency to
equilibrium. Keynes' criticism of Winston Churchill's form of the return to the gold standard implicitly compared it to the consequences of the Treaty of Versailles.
One of the reasons for setting the currencies at parity with the pre-war price was the prevailing opinion at that time that deflation was not a danger, while inflation,
particularly the inflation in the Weimar Republic, was an unbearable danger. Another reason was that those who had loaned in nominal amounts hoped to recover the
same value in gold that they had lent. Because of the reparations that Germany had to pay France, Germany began a credit-fueled period of growth in order to export
and sell enough goods abroad to gain gold to pay the reparations. The U.S., as the world's gold sink, loaned money to Germany to industrialize, which was then the
basis for Germany paying back France, and France paying back loans to the U.K. and the U.S. This arrangement was codified in the Dawes Plan.
In some cases, deflation can be hard on sectors of the economy such as agriculture, if they are deeply in debt at high interest rates and are unable to refinance, or that
are dependent upon loans to finance capital goods when low interest rates are not available. Deflation erodes the price of commodities while increasing the real
liability of debt. Deflation is beneficial to those with assets in cash, and to those who wish to invest or purchase assets or loan money.
More recent research, by economists such as Peter Temin, Ben Bernanke and Barry Eichengreen, has focused on the constraints policy makers were under at the time
of the Depression. In this view, the constraints of the inter-war gold standard magnified the initial economic shock and were a significant obstacle to any actions that
would ameliorate the growing Depression. According to them, the initial destabilizing shock may have originated with the Wall Street Crash of 1929 in the U.S., but
it was the gold standard system that transmitted the problem to the rest of the world.[65]
According to their conclusions, during a time of crisis, policy makers may have wanted to loosen monetary and fiscal policy, but such action would threaten the
countries’ ability to maintain their obligation to exchange gold at its contractual rate. The gold standard required countries to maintain high interest rates to attract
international investors who bought foreign assets with gold. Therefore, governments had their hands tied as the economies collapsed, unless they abandoned their
currency’s link to gold. Fixing the exchange rate of all countries on the gold standard ensured that the market for foreign exchange can only equilibrate through
interest rates. As the Depression worsened, many countries started to abandon the gold standard, and those that abandoned it earlier suffered less from deflation and
tended to recover more quickly.[66]
Richard Timberlake, economist of the free banking school and protégé of Milton Friedman, specifically addressed this stance in his paper Gold Standards and the
Real Bills Doctrine in U.S. Monetary Policy, wherein he argued that the Federal Reserve actually had plenty of lee-way under the gold standard, as had been
demonstrated by the price stability policy of New York Fed governor Benjamin Strong, between 1923 and 1928. But when Strong died in late 1928, the faction that
took over dominance of the Fed advocated a real bills doctrine, where all money had to be represented by physical goods. This policy, forcing a 30% deflation of the
dollar that inevitably damaged the US economy, is stated by Timberlake as being arbitrary and avoidable, the existing gold standard having been capable of
continuing without it:
This shift in control was decisive. In accordance with the precedent Strong had set in promoting a stable price level policy without heed to any golden fetters,
real bills proponents could proceed equally unconstrained in implementing their policy ideal. System policy in 1928–29 consequently shifted from price level
stabilization to passive real bills. “The” gold standard remained where it had been—nothing but formal window dressing waiting for an opportune time to
reappear.[67]
Financial institution structures
Economic historians (especially Friedman and Schwartz) emphasize the importance of numerous
bank failures. The failures were mostly in rural America. Structural weaknesses in the rural
economy made local banks highly vulnerable. Farmers, already deeply in debt, saw farm prices
plummet in the late 1920s and their implicit real interest rates on loans skyrocket.
Their land was already over-mortgaged (as a result of the 1919 bubble in land prices), and crop
prices were too low to allow them to pay off what they owed. Small banks, especially those tied to
the agricultural economy, were in constant crisis in the 1920s with their customers defaulting on
loans because of the sudden rise in real interest rates; there was a steady stream of failures among
these smaller banks throughout the decade.
The city banks also suffered from structural weaknesses that made them vulnerable to a shock.
Some of the nation's largest banks were failing to maintain adequate reserves and were investing
heavily in the stock market or making risky loans. Loans to Germany and Latin America by New
York City banks were especially risky. In other words, the banking system was not well prepared
to absorb the shock of a major recession.
Economists have argued that a liquidity trap might have contributed to bank failures.
Economists and historians debate how much responsibility to assign the Wall Street Crash of 1929. The timing was right; the magnitude of the shock to expectations
of future prosperity was high. Most analysts believe the market in 1928–29 was a "bubble" with prices far higher than justified by fundamentals. Economists agree
that somehow it shared some blame, but how much no one has estimated. Milton Friedman concluded, "I don't doubt for a moment that the collapse of the stock
market in 1929 played a role in the initial recession".[68]
The idea of owning government bonds initially became ideal to investors when Liberty Loan drives encouraged this possession in America during World War I. This
strive for dominion persisted into the 1920s. After World War I, the United States became the world’s creditor and was depended upon by many foreign nations.
“Governments from around the globe looked to Wall Street for loans”.[69] Investors then started to depend on these loans for further investments. Chief counsel of the
Senate Bank Committee, Ferdinand Pecora, disclosed that National City executives were also dependent on loans from a special bank fund as a safety net for their
stock losses while American banker, Albert Wiggin, “made millions selling short his own bank shares”.[69]
Economist David Hume stated that the economy became imbalanced as the recession spread on an international scale. The cost of goods remained too high for too
long during a time where there was less international trade. Policies set in selected countries to “maintain the value of their currency” resulted in an outcome of bank
failures.[70] Governments that continued to follow the gold standard were led into bank failure, meaning that it was the governments and central bankers that
contributed as a stepping stool into the depression.
The debate has three sides: one group says the crash caused the depression by drastically lowering expectations about the future and by removing large sums of
investment capital; a second group says the economy was slipping since summer 1929 and the crash ratified it; the third group says that in either scenario the crash
could not have caused more than a recession. There was a brief recovery in the market into April 1930, but prices then started falling steadily again from there, not
reaching a final bottom until July 1932. This was the largest long-term U.S. market decline by any measure. To move from a recession in 1930 to a deep depression
in 1931–32, entirely different factors had to be in play.[71]
Protectionism
Protectionism, such as the Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act, is often indicted as a cause of the Great Depression, with countries enacting protectionist policies yielding a
beggar thy neighbor result.[72][73] The Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act was especially harmful to agriculture because it caused farmers to default on their loans. This event
may have worsened or even caused the ensuing bank runs in the Midwest and West that caused the collapse of the banking system. A petition signed by over 1,000
economists was presented to the U.S. government warning that the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act would bring disastrous economic repercussions; however, this did not
stop the act from being signed into law.
Governments around the world took various steps into spending less money on foreign goods such as: “imposing tariffs, import quotas, and exchange
controls” (Eichengreen, B.). These restrictions formed a lot of tension between trade nations, causing a major deduction during the depression. Not all countries
enforced the same measures of protectionism. Some countries raised tariffs drastically and enforced severe restrictions on foreign exchange transactions, while other
countries condensed “trade and exchange restrictions only marginally”.[74]
“Countries that remained on the gold standard, keeping currencies fixed, were more likely to restrict foreign trade.” These countries became more competitive and
“resorted to protectionist policies to strengthen the balance of payments and limit gold losses.” They hoped that these restrictions and depletions would lead them
towards economic recovery. On the other hand, countries that chose to alleviate the gold standard, allowing fluidity in their currencies, experienced economic
recovery and “benefited from gold inflows”.[74]
There were three options left that could lead economies back to recovery. These options were: “wage and price deflation to restore external and internal balance at the
current gold parity; trade and payments restrictions to limit spending on imports and reduce gold outflows; or abandoning the gold standard and allowing the
exchange rate to depreciate”.[74]
Some economists argue that protectionism was not a cause but a reaction to the depression,[73] with protectionism policies being adopted by countries holding to the
gold standard rather than having floating exchange rates: countries on the gold standard could not cut interest rates or act as lender of last resort because they would
run out of gold, while countries off the gold standard could cut interest rates and print fiat money. In this interpretation, protectionism served to change the terms of
trade for countries whose monetary policy was constrained by the gold standard.
International Debt Structure
When the war came to an end in 1918, all European nations that had been allied with the U.S. owed large sums of money to American banks, sums much too large to
be repaid out of their shattered treasuries. This is one reason why the Allies had insisted (to the consternation of Woodrow Wilson) on demanding reparation
payments from Germany and Austria–Hungary. Reparations, they believed, would provide them with a way to pay off their own debts. However, Germany and
Austria-Hungary were themselves in deep economic trouble after the war; they were no more able to pay the reparations than the Allies were able to pay their debts.
The debtor nations put strong pressure on the U.S. in the 1920s to forgive the debts, or at least reduce them. The American government refused. Instead, U.S. banks
began making large loans to the nations of Europe. Thus, debts (and reparations) were being paid only by augmenting old debts and piling up new ones. In the late
1920s, and particularly after the American economy began to weaken after 1929, the European nations found it much more difficult to borrow money from the U.S.
At the same time, high U.S. tariffs were making it much more difficult for them to sell their goods in U.S. markets. Without any source of revenue from foreign
exchange to repay their loans, they began to default.
Beginning late in the 1920s, European demand for U.S. goods began to decline. That was partly because European industry and agriculture were becoming more
productive, and partly because some European nations (most notably Weimar Germany) were suffering serious financial crises and could not afford to buy goods
overseas. However, the central issue causing the destabilization of the European economy in the late 1920s was the international debt structure that had emerged in
the aftermath of World War I.
The high tariff walls such as the Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act critically impeded the payment of war debts. As a result of high U.S. tariffs, only a sort of cycle kept the
reparations and war-debt payments going. During the 1920s, the former allies paid the war-debt installments to the U.S. chiefly with funds obtained from German
reparations payments, and Germany was able to make those payments only because of large private loans from the U.S. and Britain. Similarly, U.S. investments
abroad provided the dollars, which alone made it possible for foreign nations to buy U.S. exports.
The Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act was instituted by Senator Reed Smoot and Representative Willis C. Hawley, and signed into law by President Hoover, to raise taxes on
American imports by about 20 percent during June 1930. This tax, which aided towards the exceedingly damaged American income and overproduction, was only
beneficial towards the Americans in having to spend less on foreign goods. In contrast, European trading nations frowned upon this tax increase, particularly since
the “United States was an international creditor and exports to the U.S. market were already declining”.[74] In response to the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act, some of
America’s primary producers and largest trading partner, Canada, chose to seek retribution by increasing the financial value of imported goods favoured by the
Americans.
In the scramble for liquidity that followed the 1929 stock market crash, funds flowed back from Europe to America, and Europe's fragile economies crumbled.
By 1931, the world was reeling from the worst depression of recent memory, and the entire structure of reparations and war debts collapsed.
Population dynamics
In 1939, prominent economist Alvin Hansen discussed the decline in population growth in relation to the Depression.[75] The same idea was discussed in a 1978
journal article by Clarence Barber, an economist at the University of Manitoba. Using "a form of the Harrod model" to analyze the Depression, Barber states:
In such a model, one would look for the origins of a serious depression in conditions which produced a decline in Harrod's natural rate of growth, more
specifically, in a decline in the rate of population and labour force growth and in the rate of growth of productivity or technical progress, to a level below
the warranted rate of growth.[76]
The Great Depression in an international context.
Barber says, while there is "no clear evidence" of a decline in "the rate of growth of productivity" during the 1920s, there is "clear evidence" the population growth
rate began to decline during that same period. He argues the decline in population growth rate may have caused a decline in "the natural rate of growth" which was
significant enough to cause a serious depression.[76]
Barber says a decline in the population growth rate is likely to affect the demand for housing, and claims this is apparently what happened during the 1920s. He
concludes:
the rapid and very large decline in the rate of growth of non-farm households was clearly the major reason for the decline that occurred in residential
construction in the United States from 1926 on. And this decline, as Bolch and Pilgrim have claimed, may well have been the most important single
factor in turning the 1929 downturn into a major depression.[77]
The decline in housing construction that can be attributed to demographics has been estimated to range from 28% in 1933 to 38% in 1940.[78]
Among the causes of the decline in the population growth rate during the 1920s were a declining birth rate after 1910[79] and reduced immigration. The decline in
immigration was largely the result of legislation in the 1920s placing greater restrictions on immigration. In 1921, Congress passed the Emergency Quota Act,
followed by the Immigration Act of 1924.
Factors that majorly contributed to the failing of the economy since 1925, was a decrease in both residential and non-residential buildings being constructed. It was
the debt as a result of the war, less families being formed, and an imbalance of mortgage payments and loans in 1928–29 that mainly contributed to the decline in the
amount of houses being built. This caused the populate growth rate to decelerate. Though non-residential units continued to be built “at a high rate throughout the
decade”, the demands for such units were actually very low[64]
Role of economic policy
Calvin Coolidge (1923–29)
There is an ongoing debate between historians as to what extent President Calvin Coolidge's laissez-faire hands-off attitude has contributed to the Great Depression.
Despite a growing rate of bank failures he did not heed voices that predicted the lack of banking regulation as potentially dangerous. He did not listen to members of
Congress warning that stock speculation had gone too far and he ignored criticisms that workers did not participate sufficiently in the prosperity of the Roaring
Twenties.[80]
Leave-it-alone liquidationism (1929–33)
Overview
From the point of view of today's mainstream schools of economic thought, government
should strive to keep some broad nominal aggregate on a stable growth path (for
proponents of new classical macroeconomics and monetarism, the measure is the nominal
money supply; for Keynesian economists it is the nominal aggregate demand itself).
During a depression the central bank should pour liquidity into the banking system and the
government should cut taxes and accelerate spending in order to keep the nominal money
stock and total nominal demand from collapsing.[81]
The United States government and the Federal Reserve did not do that during the 1929-32
slide into the Great Depression[81] The existence of "liquidationism" played a key part in
motivating public policy decisions not to fight the gathering Great Depression. An
increasingly common view among economic historians is that the adherence of some
Federal Reserve policymakers to the liquidationist thesis led to disastrous consequences.
[82] Regarding the policies of President Hoover, economists Barry Eichengreen and J.
Bradford DeLong point out that the Hoover administration’s fiscal policy was guided by
liquidationist economists and policy makers, as Hoover tried to keep the federal budget
balanced until 1932, when Hoover lost confidence in his Secretary of the Treasury
Andrew Mellon and replaced him.[83][84][85] Hoover wrote in his memoirs he did not side
with the liquidationists, but took the side of those in his cabinet with "economic responsibility", his Secretary of Commerce Robert P. Lamont and Secretary of
Agriculture Arthur M. Hyde, who advised the President to "use the powers of government to cushion the situation".[86] But at the same time he kept Andrew Mellon
as Secretary of the Treasury until February 1932. It was during 1932 that Hoover began to support more aggressive measures to combat the Depression.[87] In his
memoirs, President Hoover wrote bitterly about members of his Cabinet who had advised inaction during the downslide into the Great Depression:
The leave-it-alone liquidationists headed by Secretary of the Treasury Mellon ... felt that government must keep its hands off and let the slump liquidate
itself. Mr. Mellon had only one formula: "Liquidate labor, liquidate stocks, liquidate the farmers, liquidate real estate ... It will purge the rottenness out of
the system. High costs of living and high living will come down. People will work harder, live a more moral life. Values will be adjusted, and
enterprising people will pick up the wrecks from less competent people."[81]
Before the Keynesian Revolution, such a liquidationist theory was a common position for economists to take and was held and advanced by economists like Friedrich
Hayek, Lionel Robbins Joseph Schumpeter, Seymour Harris and others.[85] According to the liquidationists a depression is good medicine. The function of a
depression is to liquidate failed investments and businesses that have been made obsolete by technological development in order to release factors of production
(capital and labor) from unproductive uses. These can then be redeployed in other sectors of the technologically dynamic economy. They pointed to the short duration
of the Depression of 1920–21 was due to the policy of letting the liquidation occur and argued that the crisis had laid the groundwork for the prosperity of the later
1920s. They pushed for deflationary policies (which were already executed in 1921) which – in their opinion – would assist the release of capital and labor from
unproductive activities to lay the groundwork for a new economic boom. The liquidationists argued that even if self-adjustment of the economy took mass
bankruptcies, then so be it.[85] Postponing the liquidation process would only magnify the social costs. Schumpeter wrote that it[81]
... leads us to believe that recovery is sound only if it does come of itself. For any revival which is merely due to artificial stimulus leaves part of the
work of depressions undone and adds, to an undigested remnant of maladjustment, new maladjustment of its own which has to be liquidated in turn, thus
threatening business with another (worse) crisis ahead.
Unemployment rate in the US 1910–60, with the years of the
Great Depression (1929–39) highlighted; accurate data
begins in 1939.
Federal spending in millions of dollars (1910–60). The time
period of the Hoover administration, the New Deal and
World War II are highlighted.
Despite liquidationist expectations, a large proportion of the capital stock was not redeployed and vanished during the first years of the Great Depression. According
to a study by Olivier Blanchard and Lawrence Summers, the recession caused a drop of net capital accumulation to pre-1924 levels by 1933.[88]
Criticism
Economists such as John Maynard Keynes and Milton Friedman suggested that the do-nothing policy prescription which resulted from the liquidationist theory
contributed to deepening the Great Depression.[83] With the rhetoric of ridicule Keynes tried to discredit the liquidationist view in presenting Hayek, Robbins and
Schumpeter as
...austere and puritanical souls [who] regard [the Great Depression] ... as an inevitable and a desirable nemesis on so much "overexpansion" as they call
it ... It would, they feel, be a victory for the mammon of unrighteousness if so much prosperity was not subsequently balanced by universal bankruptcy.
We need, they say, what they politely call a 'prolonged liquidation' to put us right. The liquidation, they tell us, is not yet complete. But in time it will be.
And when sufficient time has elapsed for the completion of the liquidation, all will be well with us again...
Milton Friedman stated that at the University of Chicago such “dangerous nonsense” was never taught and that he understood why at Harvard —where such nonsense
was taught— bright young economists rejected their teachers' macroeconomics, and become Keynesians.[81] He wrote:
I think the Austrian business-cycle theory has done the world a great deal of harm. If you go back to the 1930s, which is a key point, here you had the
Austrians sitting in London, Hayek and Lionel Robbins, and saying you just have to let the bottom drop out of the world. You’ve just got to let it cure
itself. You can’t do anything about it. You will only make it worse.… I think by encouraging that kind of do-nothing policy both in Britain and in the
United States, they did harm.[83]
Economist Lawrence White, while acknowledging that Hayek and Robbins did not actively oppose the deflationary policy of the early 1930s, nevertheless challenges
the argument of Milton Friedman, J. Bradford DeLong et al. that Hayek was a proponent of liquidationism. White argues that the business cycle theory of Hayek and
Robbins (which later developed into Austrian business cycle theory in its present-day form) was actually not consistent with a monetary policy which permitted a
severe contraction of the money supply. Nevertheless, White says that at the time of the Great Depression Hayek "expressed ambivalence about the shrinking
nomimal income and sharp deflation in 1929–32".[89] In a talk in 1975, Hayek admitted the mistake he made over forty years earlier in not opposing the Central
Bank's deflationary policy and stated the reason why he had been "ambivalent": "At that time I believed that a process of deflation of some short duration might break
the rigidity of wages which I thought was incompatible with a functioning economy."[41] 1979 Hayek strongly criticized the Fed's contractionary monetary policy
early in the Depression and its failure to offer banks liquidity:
I agree with Milton Friedman that once the Crash had occurred, the Federal Reserve System pursued a silly deflationary policy. I am not only against
inflation but I am also against deflation. So, once again, a badly programmed monetary policy prolonged the depression.[42]
Herbert Hoover (1929–33)
Economic policy
Historians gave Hoover credit for working tirelessly to combat the depression and noted that he left
government prematurely aged. But his policies are rated as simply not far-reaching enough to address the
Great Depression. He was prepared to do something, but nowhere near enough.[90] Hoover was no
exponent of laissez-faire. But his principal philosophies were voluntarism, self-help, and rugged
individualism. He refused direct federal intervention. He believed that government should do more than
his immediate predecessors (Warren G. Harding, Calvin Coolidge) believed. But he was not willing to go
as far as Franklin D. Roosevelt later did. Therefore, he is described as the "first of the new presidents" and
"the last of the old".[91]
Hoovers first measures were based on voluntarism by businesses not to reduce their workforce or cut
wages. But businesses had little choice and wages were reduced, workers were laid off, and investments
postponed. Hoover urged bankers to set up the National Credit Corporation so that big banks could help
failing banks survive. But bankers were reluctant to invest in failing banks, and the National Credit
Corporation did almost nothing to address the problem.[92] In 1932 Hoover reluctantly established the
Reconstruction Finance Corporation, a Federal agency with the authority to lend up to $2 billion to rescue
banks and restore confidence in financial institutions. But $2 billion was not enough to save all the banks, and bank runs and bank failures continued.[93]
Federal spending
J. Bradford DeLong explained that Hoover would have been a budget cutter in normal times and
continuously wanted to balance the budget. Hoover held the line against powerful political forces that
sought to increase government spending after the Depression began for fully two and a half years. During
the first two years of the Depression (1929 and 1930) Hoover actually achieved budget surpluses of about
0.8% of gross domestic product (GDP). In 1931, when the recession significantly worsened and GDP
declined by 15%, the federal budget had only a small deficit of 0.6% of GDP. It was not until 1932 (when
GDP declined by 27% compared to 1929-level) that Hoover pushed for measures (Reconstruction
Finance Corporation, Federal Home Loan Bank Act, direct loans to fund state Depression relief
programs) that increased spending. But at the same time he pushed for the Revenue Act of 1932 that
massively increased taxes in order to balance the budget again.[87]
Uncertainty was a major factor, argued by several economists, that contributed to the worsening and
length of the depression. It was also said to be responsible “for the initial decline in consumption that
marks the” beginning of the Great Depression by economists Paul R. Flacco and Randall E. Parker.
Economist Ludwig Lachmann argues that it was pessimism that prevented the recovery and worsening of
the depression[94] President Hoover is said to have been blinded from what was right in front of him.
USA GDP annual pattern and long-term trend, 1920–40, in
billions of constant dollars.
Economist James Deusenberry argues economic imbalance was not only a result of World War I, but also of the structural changes made during the first quarter of
the Twentieth Century. He also states the branches of the nation’s economy became smaller, there was not much demand for housing, and the stock market crash
“had a more direct impact on consumption than any previous financial panic”[95]
Economist William A. Lewis describes the conflict between America and its primary producers:
Misfortunes (of the 1930’s) were due principally to the fact that the production of primary commodities after the war was somewhat in excess of
demand. It was this which, by keeping the terms of trade unfavourable to primary producers, kept the trade in manufactures so low, to the detriment of
some countries as the United Kingdom, even in the twenties, and it was this which pulled the world economy down in the early thirties….If primary
commodity markets had not been so insecure the crisis of 1929 would not have become a great depression....It was the violent fall of prices that was
deflationary.[96]
The stock market crash was not the first sign of the Great Depression. “Long before the crash, community banks were failing at the rate of one per day”.[69] It was the
development of the Federal Reserve System that misled investors in the ‘20s into relying on federal banks as a safety net. They were encouraged to continue buying
stocks and to overlook any of the fluctuations. Economist Roger Babson tried to warn the investors of the deficiency to come, but was ridiculed even as the economy
began to deteriorate during the summer of 1929. While England and Germany struggled under the strain on gold currencies after the war, economists were blinded by
an unsustainable ‘new economy' they sought to be considerably stable and successful.[69]
Since the United States decided to no longer comply with the gold standard, “the value of the dollar could change freely from day to day”.[70] Although this
imbalance on an international scale led to crisis, the economy within the nation remained stable.
The depression then affected all nations on an international scale. “The German mark collapsed when the chancellor put domestic politics ahead of sensible finance;
the bank of England abandoned the gold standard after a subsequent speculative attack; and the U.S. Federal Reserve raised its discount rate dramatically in October
1931 to preserve the value of the dollar”.[70] The Federal Reserve drove the American economy into an even deeper depression.
Tax policy
In 1929 the Hoover administration responded to the economic crises by temporarily lowering income tax rates and the corporate tax rate.[97] At the beginning of 1931,
tax returns showed a tremendous decline in income due to the economic downturn. Income tax receipts were 40% less than in 1930. At the same time government
spending proved to be a lot greater than estimated.[97] As a result, the budget deficit increased tremendously. While Secretary of the Treasury Andrew Mellon urged
to increase taxes, Hoover had no desire to do so since 1932 was an election year.[98] In December 1931, hopes that the economic downturn would come to an end
vanished since all economic indicators pointed to a continuing downward trend.[99] On January 7, 1932, Andrew Mellon announced that the Hoover administration
would end a further increase in public debt by raising taxes.[100] On June 6, 1932, the Revenue Act of 1932 was signed into law. It raised taxes on all brackets, tripling
the tax rate on the poorest, and on the wealthy he increased taxes from 25% to 63%.[101][102] The higher taxes were first to be paid for the fiscal year 1933 when
coincidently the long recession ended.
Franklin Delano Roosevelt (1933–45)
The New Deal was Roosevelt´s response to the Great Depression. The reception is mixed. While some
historians and economists argue that the New Deal was the key to recovery others argue that it prolonged
the Great Depression.
In a survey of economic historians conducted by Robert Whaples, Professor of Economics at Wake Forest
University, anonymous questionnaires were sent to members of the Economic History Association.
Members were asked to either disagree, agree, or agree with provisos with the statement that read:
"Taken as a whole, government policies of the New Deal served to lengthen and deepen the Great
Depression." While only 6% of economic historians who worked in the history department of their
universities agreed with the statement, 27% of those that work in the economics department agreed.
Almost an identical percent of the two groups (21% and 22%) agreed with the statement "with
provisos" (a conditional stipulation), while 74% of those who worked in the history department, and 51%
in the economic department disagreed with the statement outright.[103]
Arguments for key to recovery
According to Peter Temin, Barry Wigmore, Gauti B. Eggertsson and Christina Romer the biggest primary
impact of the New Deal on the economy and the key to recovery and to end the Great Depression was brought about by a successful management of public
expectations. Before the first New Deal measures people expected a contractionary economic situation (recession, deflation) to persist. Roosevelt's fiscal and
monetary policy regime change helped to make his policy objectives credible. Expectations changed towards an expansionary development (economic growth,
inflation). The expectation of higher future income and higher future inflation stimulated demand and investments. The analysis suggests that the elimination of the
policy dogmas of the gold standard, balanced budget and small government led endogenously to a large shift in expectation that accounts for about 70–80 percent of
the recovery of output and prices from 1933 to 1937. If the regime change would not have happened and the Hoover policy would have continued, the economy
would have continued its free fall in 1933, and output would have been 30 percent lower in 1937 than in 1933.[32][33]
Arguments for prolongation of the Great Depression
In the new classical macroeconomics view of the Great Depression large negative shocks caused the 1929–33 downturn – including monetary shocks, productivity
shocks, and banking shocks – but those developments become positive after 1933 due to monetary and banking reform policies. According to the model Cole-
Ohanian impose, the main culprits for the prolonged depression were labor frictions and productivity/efficiency frictions (perhaps, to a lesser extent). Financial
frictions are unlikely to have caused the prolonged slump.[104][105]
In the Cole-Ohanian model there is a slower than normal recovery which they explain by New Deal policies which they evaluated as tending towards monopoly and
distribution of wealth. The key economic paper looking at these diagnostic sources in relation to the Great Depression is Cole and Ohanian’s work. Cole-Ohanian
point at two policies of New Deal: the National Industrial Recovery Act and National Labor Relations Act (NLRA), the latter strengthening NIRA’s labor provision.
According to Cole-Ohanian New Deal policies created cartelization, high wages, and high prices in at least manufacturing and some energy and mining industries.
Roosevelts policies against the severity of the Depression like the NIRA, a “code of fair competition” for each industry were aimed to reduce cutthroat competition in
a period of severe deflation, which was seen as the cause for lowered demand and employment. The NIRA suspended antitrust laws and permitted collusion in some
sectors provided that industry raised wages above clearing level and accepted collective bargaining with labor unions. The effects of cartelization can be seen as the
basic effect of monopoly. The given corporation produces too little, charges too high of a price, and under-employs labor. Likewise, an increase in the power of
unions creates a situation similar to monopoly. Wages are too high for the union members, so the corporation employs fewer people and, produces less output. Cole-
Ohanian show that 60% of the difference between the trend and realized output is due to cartelization and unions.[104] Chari, Kehoe, McGrattan also present a nice
exposition that’s in line with Cole-Ohanian. .[105]
This type of analysis has numerous counterarguments including the applicability of the equilibrium business cycle to the Great Depression.[106]
See also
◾ Political philosophy
◾ Timeline of the Great Depression
Notes
1. Beaudreau, Bernard C. (1996). Mass Production, the Stock Market Crash and the
Great Depression. New York, Lincoln, Shanghi: Authors Choice Press.
2. Field, Alexander J. (2011). A Great Leap Forward: 1930s Depression and U.S.
Economic Growth. New Haven, London: Yale University Press. p. 182. ISBN 978-
0-300-15109-1<Field cites Freeman & Schwartz (1963), Temin (1976), Bernanke
(1983), Field (1984), Romer (1990), Eighengreen (1992).>
3. Robert Whaples, Where Is There Consensus Among American Economic
Historians? The Results of a Survey on Forty Propositions., Journal of Economic
History, Vol. 55, No. 1 (March 1995), p. 150 in JSTOR.
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/2123771)
4. Robert Whaples, Where Is There Consensus Among American Economic
Historians? The Results of a Survey on Forty Propositions., Journal of Economic
History, Vol. 55, No. 1 (March 1995), p. 143 in JSTOR.
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/2123771)
5. Keen 2000, p. 198.
6. Caldwell, J., & O'Driscoll, T. G. (2007). What Caused the Great Depression?.
Social Education, 71(2), 70-74
7. Paul Krugman, "Who Was Milton Friedman?" New York Review of Books Volume
32, Number 32 · February 3, 2007 online community
(http://www.nybooks.com/articles/19857)
8. Friedman 1965, p. 4.
9. The History of Economic Downturns in the US – But Now You Know.net
(http://butnowyouknow.wordpress.com/those-who-fail-to-learn-fromhistory/
history-of-economic-downturns-in-the-us/)
10. * Bruner, Robert F.; Carr, Sean D. (2007). The Panic of 1907: Lessons Learned
from the Market's Perfect Storm. Hoboken, New Jersey: John Wiley & Sons.
ISBN 978-0-470-15263-8
11. Gold Standards and the Real Bills Doctrine in US Monetary Policy, Richard H
Timberlake, published in Econ Journal Watch, August 2005 –
http://www.econjournalwatch.org/pdf/TimberlakeIntellectualTyrannyAugust2005.pdf
12. Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar publishing, 2003,
ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 11
13. Ben Bernanke, "Non-monetary effects of the financial crisis in the propagation of
the Great Depression", (1983) American Economic Review . Am 73#3 257–76.
14. Friedman 2007, p. 15.
15. (Samuelson 1948, p. 353)
16. Samuelson, Friedman, and monetary policy
(http://krugman.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/12/14/samuelson-friedman-and-monetarypolicy/),
Paul Krugman, New York Times Blog, December 14, 2009
17. Robert Whaples, Where Is There Consensus Among American Economic
Historians? The Results of a Survey on Forty Propositions., Journal of Economic
History, Vol. 55, No. 1 (March 1995), p. 150, in JSTOR
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/2123771?seq=1#page_scan_tab_contents)
18. [1] (http://www.johnmauldin.com/images/uploads/pdf/mwo071811.pdf) Several
graphs of total debt to GDP can be found on the Internet.
19. Jerome, Harry (1934). Mechanization in Industry, National Bureau of Economic
Research.
20. Hansen, Alvin (1939). "Economic Progress and Declining Population Growth".
American Economic Review'. 29 (March).
21. Fisher, Irving (October 1933). "The Debt-Deflation Theory of Great Depressions".
Econometrica. The Econometric Society. 1 (4): 337–357. doi:10.2307/1907327.
JSTOR 1907327.
22. Fortune, Peter (Sep–Oct 2000). "Margin Requirements, Margin Loans, and Margin
Rates: Practice and Principles – analysis of history of margin credit regulations –
Statistical Data Included". New England Economic Review.
23. "Bank Failures". Living History Farm. Retrieved 2008-05-22.
24. "Friedman and Schwartz, Monetary History of the United States", 352
25. Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Edward Elgar Publishing,
2003, ISBN 9781843765509, p. 14-15
26. Bernanke, Ben S (June 1983). "Non-Monetary Effects of the Financial Crisis in the
Propagation of the Great Depression". The American Economic Review. The
American Economic Association. 73 (3): 257–276. JSTOR 1808111.
27. Mishkin, Fredric (December 1978). "The Household Balance and the Great
Depression". Journal of Economic History. 38 (4): 918–37.
doi:10.1017/S0022050700087167.
28. Keen, Steve (2012-12-06). "Briefing for Congress on the Fiscal Cliff: Lessons from
the 1930s - Steve Keen's Debtwatch". Debtdeflation.com. Retrieved 2014-12-01.
29. http://libertyloveandjusticeforall.com/2012/12/08/debt-reset-is-inevitable/
30. Friedersdorf, Conor (2012-12-05). "What If the Fiscal Cliff Is the Wrong Cliff?".
The Atlantic. Retrieved 2014-12-01.
31. "Private Debt Caused The Current Great Depression, Not Public Debt - Michael
Clark". Seeking Alpha. Retrieved 2014-12-01.
32. Gauti B. Eggertsson, Great Expectations and the End of the Depression
(http://www.aeaweb.org/articles.php?doi=10.1257/aer.98.4.1476), American
Economic Review 2008, 98:4, 1476–1516
33. The New York Times, Christina Romer, The Fiscal Stimulus, Flawed but Valuable
(http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/21/business/how-the-fiscal-stimulus-helpedand-
could-have-done-more.html?hp&_r=0), October 20, 2012
34. Peter Temin, Lessons from the Great Depression, MIT Press, 1992, ISBN
9780262261197, p. 87-101
35. Gauti B. Eggertsson, Great Expectations and the End of the Depression
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/29730131), The American Economic Review, Vol. 98,
No. 4 (Sep., 2008), S. 1476-1516, p. 1480
36. Murray Rothbard, America's Great Depression (Ludwig von Mises Institute, 2000),
pp. 159–63.
37. Rothbard, America's Great Depression, pp. 19–21"
38. Mises, Ludwig von (2006). The Causes of the Economic Crisis; and Other Essays
Before and After the Great Depression. Ludwig von Mises Institute. p. 207.
ISBN 978-1933550039.
39. Rothbard, A History of Money and Banking in the United States, pp. 293–94.
40. John Cunningham Wood, Robert D. Wood, Friedrich A. Hayek, Taylor & Francis,
2004, ISBN 9780415310574, p. 115
41. White, Clash of Economic Ideas, p. 94. See alsoWhite, Lawrence (2008). "Did
Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?". Journal of Money, Credit and
Banking. 40 (40): 751–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x.
42. F. A. Hayek, interviewed by Diego Pizano July, 1979 published in: Diego Pizano,
Conversations with Great Economists: Friedrich A. Hayek, John Hicks, Nicholas
Kaldor, Leonid V. Kantorovich, Joan Robinson, Paul A.Samuelson, Jan Tinbergen
(Jorge Pinto Books, 2009).
43. Sennholz, Hans (October 1, 1969). "The Great Depression". Foundation for
Economic Education. Retrieved October 23, 2016.
44. "Lewis Corey: The Decline of American Capitalism (1934)". Marxists.org. 2007-
09-30. Retrieved 2014-12-01.
45. Bell, Spurgeon (1940). "Productivity, Wages and National Income , The Institute of
Economics of the Brookings Institution".
46. Yergin, Daniel (1992). The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money $ Power.
47. Vatter, Harold G.; Walker, John F.; Alperovitz, Gar (2005). "The onset and
persistence of secular stagnation in the U.S. economy: 1910-1990, Journal of
Economic Issues".
48. Beaudreau (1996) cites capacity utilization at 84-86%, which would be a decent
number today; however, there were some industrial leaders who complained of
overcapacity, as did Senator Smoot.
49. Jerome, Harry (1934). Mechanization in Industry, National Bureau of Economic
Research<For the several industries studied industry expansion offset most of the
productivity gains that would otherwise have resulted in many more job losses than
actually occurred. To prevent rising unemployment the laid off workers would have
to have changed industries, but it was noted that even if workers were successful at
such a change the time typically took 18 months or more. The employment
statistics for the 1930 census reflect conditions after the start of the depression so
the actual employment situation prior to the depression is unknown.>
50. "Hours of Work in U.S. History". 2010.
51. Whaples, Robert (June 1991). "The Shortening of the American Work Week: An
Economic and Historical Analysis of Its Context, Causes, and Consequences, The
Journal of Economic History, Vol. 51, No. 2; pp. 454–57".
52. Field, Alexander (2004). "Technological Change and Economic Growth the
Interwar Years and the 1990s" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2012-03-
10.
53. Hubbert, M. King (1940). "Man Hours and Distribution , Derived from Man Hours:
A Declining Quantity, Technocracy, Series A, No. 8, August 1936".
54. Stiglitz, Joseph (2011). "The Book of Jobs". Vanity Fair. Retrieved 2011-12-23
55. Ayres, R. U.; Ayres, L. W.; Warr, B. (2002). "Exergy, Power and Work in the U. S.
Economy 1900–1998, Insead's Center For the Management of Environmental
Resources, 2002/52/EPS/CMER" (PDF)<Fig. 4 in Appendix>From one-sixth to
one-quarter of all land had been used to grow animal feed.
56. Atack, Jeremy; Passell, Peter (1994). A New Economic View of American History.
New York: W.W. Norton and Co. pp. 574–6. ISBN 0-393-96315-2.
57. General Motors and the Decline of Streetcars
(http://debunkportland.com/printables/TQOrigin.pdf)
58. Field, Alexander J. (2011). A Great Leap Forward: 1930s Depression and U.S.
Economic Growth. New Haven, London: Yale University Press. ISBN 978-0-300-
15109-1.
59. David M. Kennedy, 'Freedom From Fear, The American People in Depression and
War 1929–1945, Oxford University Press, 1999, ISBN 0-19-503834-7, pp. 122,
123
60. Dorfman,1959
61. Allgoewer, Elisabeth (May 2002). "Underconsumption theories and Keynesian
economics. Interpretations of the Great Depression" (PDF). Discussion paper no.
2002-14.
62. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p. 108
63. The Road to Plenty (1928)
64. Chapter 15: The Great Depression. (1999). Growth of the International Economy
1820–2000 (pp. 226–34). Taylor & Francis Ltd / Books.
65. Eichengreen 1992, p. xi
66. Bernanke 2002, p. 80
67. Gold Standards and the Real Bills Doctrine in U.S. Monetary Policy, RICHARD H.
TIMBERLAKE
http://www.econjournalwatch.org/pdf/TimberlakeIntellectualTyrannyAugust2005.pdf
68. Parker, p. 49.
69. Chernow, R. (2009, Oct 23). Everyman's financial meltdown. New York Times
(1923-Current File). Retrieved from
http://search.proquest.com/docview/1030683641
70. Temin, P. (2010). The Great Recession & the Great Depression. Daedalus, 139(4),
115–24.
71. White, 1990.
72. Protectionism and the Great Depression
(http://krugman.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/11/30/protectionism-and-the-greatdepression/),
Paul Krugman, New York Times, November 30, 2009
73. The protectionist temptation: Lessons from the Great Depression for today
(http://voxeu.org/index.php?q=node/3280), VOX, Barry Eichengreen, Douglas
Irwin, 17 March 2009
74. EICHENGREEN, B., & IRWIN, D. A. (2010). The Slide to Protectionism in the
Great Depression: Who Succumbed and Why?. Journal Of Economic History, 70
(4), 871–97.
75. Hansen, Alvin (1939). "Economic Progress and Declining Population Growth".
ISBN 978-1162557823<Originally printed in a journal. Reprinted 2004, 2010>
76. Barber, Clarence L. "On the Origins of the Great Depression", Southern Economic
Journal, January, 1978, 44(3), pp. 432–56.
77. Barber, Clarence L. "On the Origins of the Great Depression", Southern Economic
Journal, January 1978, 44(3), pp. 432–56. See also Bolch, B. W. and J. D. Pilgrim,
"A Reappraisal of Some Factors Associated with Fluctuations in the United States
in the Interwar Period." Southern Economic Journal, January 1973, pp. 327–44.
78. Atack, Jeremy; Passell, Peter (1994). A New Economic View of American History.
New York: W.W. Norton and Co. p. 599. ISBN 0-393-96315-2.
79. Longman, Philip (2004). The Empty Cradle: How Falling Birthrates Threaten
World Prosperity And What to Do About It. p. 87. ISBN 0-465-05050-6.
80. Melvin I. Urofsky, The American Presidents: Critical Essays, ISBN 0-8153-
2184-8, p. 391
81. J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real Business Cycle
Theory and the Great Depression (http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?
new_window=1), National Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No.
3546, p. 1
82. White, Lawrence (2008). "Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?".
Journal of Money, Credit, and Banking. 40 (40): 751–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-
4616.2008.00134.x.
83. White, Lawrence (2008). "Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?".
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking. 40 (40): 751–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-
4616.2008.00134.x.
84. J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real Business Cycle
Theory and the Great Depression (http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?
new_window=1), National Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No.
3546, p. 5
85. Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar publishing, 2003,
ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 9
86. Hoover, Herbert. The Memoirs of Herbert Hoover, p. 31
(http://www.ecommcode.com/hoover/ebooks/pdf/FULL/B1V3_Full.pdf) Archived
(https://web.archive.org/web/20081217233238/http://www.ecommcode.com/hoover/ebooks/pdf/FULL/B1V3_December 17, 2008, at the Wayback Machine.
87. Bradford DeLong, What Was Herbert Hoover's Fiscal Policy?
(http://delong.typepad.com/sdj/2011/07/what-was-herbert-hoovers-fiscalpolicy.
html)
88. J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real Business Cycle
Theory and the Great Depression (http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?
new_window=1), National Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No.
3546, p. 33
89. Lawrence White, The Clash of Economic Ideas: The Great Policy Debates and
Experiments of the 20th Century (Cambridge University Press), p. 94.
90. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 4. Auflage, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, pp. 110–11
91. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 4. Auflage, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p. 120
92. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 4. Auflage, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p. 113
93. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 4. Auflage, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p. 114
94. Houck, D. W. (2000). RHETORIC AS CURRENCY: HERBERT HOOVER AND
THE 1929 STOCK MARKET CRASH. Rhetoric & Public Affairs, 3(2), 155–81.
95. Barber, C. L. (1978). "On the Origins of the Great Depression". Southern Economic
Journal, 44(3), 432.
96. Lewis, W. A. Economic Survey, 1919–1929. London: Allen and Unwin, 1949.
97. Roy G. Blakey, Gladys C. Blakey, The Federal Income Tax, 2006, p. 301
98. Roy G. Blakey, Gladys C. Blakey, The Federal Income Tax, 2006, pp. 302–03
99. Roy G. Blakey, Gladys C. Blakey, The Federal Income Tax, 2006, p. 304
100. Roy G. Blakey, Gladys C. Blakey, The Federal Income Tax, 2006, p. 305
101. The Concise Encyclopedia of Economics: The Great Depression
http://www.econlib.org/library/Enc/GreatDepression.html
102. http://www.cato.org/pubs/bp/bp122.pdf
103. Robert Whaples, "Where Is There Consensus Among American Economic
Historians? The Results of a Survey on Forty Propositions", Journal of Economic
History, Vol. 55, No. 1 (Mar., 1995), pp. 139–54 in JSTOR
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/2123771)
104. Cole, Harold L., and Lee E. Ohanian. "The Great Depression from a Neoclassical
Perspective." N.p., n.d. Web.
<https://www.minneapolisfed.org/research/qr/qr2311.pdf>.
105. Chari, V. V., Patrick J. Kehoe, and Ellen R. McGrattan. "Accounting for the Great
Depression." N.p., n.d. Web.
<https://www.minneapolisfed.org/research/qr/qr2721.pdf>.
106. De Vroey, Michel R. "Real Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression: The
Abandonment of the Abstentionist Viewpoint." N.p., n.d. Web.
<http://www.econ.umn.edu/~tkehoe/classes/DevroeyPensieroso.pdf>.
References
◾ Secular Stagnation and Great Depression, R. L. Norman, Jr. (http://www.secularstagnation.com)
◾ Dorfman, Joseph (1959). "Economic Mind in American Civilization"vol 4 and 5 cover the ideas of all American economists of 1918-1933.
◾ Friedman, Milton and Anna Jacobson Schwartz, A Monetary History of the United States, 1867–1960 (1963)
◾ Keen, Steve 2001. Debunking Economics Pluto Press Australia Limited Sydney, Australia
◾ Meltzer, Allan H. 2003 A History of the Federal Reserve Volume I: 1913–1951 Chicago University Press, Chicago, IL
◾ Rothbard, Murray N. 1963 America's Great Depression D. Van Nostrand Company, Princeton, NJ
◾ Rothbard, Murray N. A History of Money and Banking in the United States: The Colonial Era to World War II (2002)
◾ Samuelson, Paul (1948). "Economics".
◾ White, Eugene N. "The Stock Market Boom and Crash of 1929 Revisited" Journal of Economic Perspectives, Vol. 4, No. 2 (Spring, 1990), pp. 67–83;
examines different theories
Further reading
World
◾ Ambrosius, G. and W. Hibbard. A Social and Economic History of Twentieth-Century Europe (1989)
◾ Barber, Clarence Lyle (University of Manitoba) "On the Origins of the Great Depression" (1978)
◾ Bordo, Michael, and Anna J. Schwartz, eds. A Retrospective on the Classical Gold Standard, 1821–1931 (1984) (National Bureau of Economic Research
Conference Report)
◾ Bordo, Michael et al. eds. The Gold Standard and Related Regimes: Collected Essays (1999)
◾ Brown, Ian. The Economies of Africa and Asia in the Inter-War Depression (1989)
◾ Davis, Joseph S. The World Between the Wars, 1919–39: An Economist's View (1974)
◾ Eichengreen, Barry. Golden Fetters: The Gold Standard and the Great Depression, 1919–1939 (NBER Series on Long-Term Factors in Economic
Development), 1996, ISBN 0-19-510113-8
◾ Eichengreen, Barry, and Marc Flandreau, eds. The Gold Standard in Theory and History (1997)
◾ Feinstein, Charles H. The European Economy Between the Wars (1997)
◾ Garraty, John A. The Great Depression: An Inquiry into the Causes, Course, and Consequences of the Worldwide Depression of the Nineteen-Thirties, as Seen
by Contemporaries and in Light of History (1986)
◾ Garraty, John A. Unemployment in History (1978)
◾ Garside, William R. Capitalism in Crisis: International Responses to the Great Depression (1993)
◾ Haberler, Gottfried. The World Economy, Money, and the Great Depression 1919–1939 (1976)
◾ Hall, Thomas E. and J. David Ferguson. The Great Depression: An International Disaster of Perverse Economic Policies (1998)
◾ Kaiser, David E. Economic Diplomacy and the Origins of the Second World War: Germany, Britain, France and Eastern Europe, 1930–1939 (1980)
◾ Kindleberger, Charles P. The World in Depression, 1929–1939 (1983);
◾ Tipton, F. and R. Aldrich. An Economic and Social History of Europe, 1890–1939 (1987)
United States
◾ Ben S. Bernanke. Essays on the Great Depression (2000)
◾ Bernstein, Michael A. The Great Depression: Delayed Recovery and Economic Change in America, 1929–1939 (1989) focus on low-growth and high-growth
industries
◾ Bordo, Michael D., Claudia Goldin, and Eugene N. White, eds. The Defining Moment: The Great Depression and the American Economy in the Twentieth
Century (1998). Advanced economic history.
◾ Chandler, Lester. America's Greatest Depression (1970). economic history overview.
◾ De Long, Bradford. Liquidation Cycles and the Great Depression (1991)
◾ Horwitz, Steven (2008). "Hoover's Economic Policies". In Henderson, David R. Concise Encyclopedia of Economics (2nd ed.). Indianapolis: Library of
Economics and Liberty. ISBN 978-0865976658. OCLC 237794267.
◾ Jensen, Richard J. "The Causes and Cures of Unemployment in the Great Depression," Journal of Interdisciplinary History 19 (1989) 553–83. online at JSTOR
in most academic libraries
◾ McElvaine, Robert S. The Great Depression (2nd ed 1993) social history
◾ Mitchell, Broadus. Depression Decade: From New Era through New Deal, 1929–1941 (1964), standard economic history overview.
◾ Parker, Randall E. Reflections on the Great Depression (2002) interviews with 11 leading economists
◾ Salsman, Richard M. “The Cause and Consequences of the Great Depression” in The Intellectual Activist, ISSN 0730-2355. Mr. Salsman argues that the Great
Depression was fundamentally caused by statist government policy.
◾ Singleton, Jeff. The American Dole: Unemployment Relief and the Welfare State in the Great Depression (2000) (http://www.questia.com/PM.qst?
a=o&d=24419587)
◾ Warren, Harris Gaylord. Herbert Hoover and the Great Depression (1959).
Role of the United States Federal Reserve
◾ Chandler, Lester V. American Monetary Policy, 1928–41. (1971).
◾ Epstein, Gerald and Thomas Ferguson. "Monetary Policy, Loan Liquidation and Industrial Conflict: Federal Reserve System Open Market Operations in
1932." Journal of Economic History 44 (December 1984): 957–84. in JSTOR
◾ Kubik, Paul J., "Federal Reserve Policy during the Great Depression: The Impact of Interwar Attitudes regarding Consumption and Consumer Credit." Journal
of Economic Issues. Vo: 30. Issue: 3. Publication Year: 1996. pp 829+.
◾ Mayhew, Anne. "Ideology and the Great Depression: Monetary History Rewritten." Journal of Economic Issues 17 (June 1983): 353–60.
◾ Meltzer, Allan H. A History of the Federal Reserve, Volume 1: 1913–1951 (2004) the standard scholarly history
◾ Steindl, Frank G. Monetary Interpretations of the Great Depression. (1995).
◾ Temin, Peter. Did Monetary Forces Cause the Great Depression? (1976).
◾ Wicker, Elmus R. "A Reconsideration of Federal Reserve Policy during the 1920–1921 Depression," Journal of Economic History (1966) 26: 223–38, in
JSTOR
◾ Wicker, Elmus. Federal Reserve Monetary Policy, 1917–33. (1966).
◾ Wells, Donald R. The Federal Reserve System: A History (2004)
◾ Wueschner, Silvano A. Charting Twentieth-Century Monetary Policy: Herbert Hoover and Benjamin Strong, 1917–1927 Greenwood Press. (1999)
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Causes_of_the_Great_Depression&oldid=756605201"
Categories: 1920s Great Depression Causes of events
◾ This page was last modified on 25 December 2016, at 13:22.
◾ Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use
and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
1910年-1960年のアメリカ合衆国の年毎の実質GDP。世界恐慌の期間
(1929年-1939年)をピンク色で示した。
世界恐慌の原因
出典: フリー百科事典『ウィキペディア（Wikipedia）』
この記事は検証可能な参考文献や出典が全く示されていないか、不十分です。
出典を追加して記事の信頼性向上にご協力ください。（2009年11月）
この項目「世界恐慌の原因」は途中まで翻訳されたものです。（原文：英語版 "Causes of the Great
Depression" 00:56, 24 August 2012 （UTC） (https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=Causes_of_the_Great_Depression&oldid=508859943)）
翻訳作業に協力して下さる方を求めています。ノートページや履歴 (https://ja.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=%E4%B8%96%E7%95%8C%E6%81%90%E6%85%8C%E3%81%AE%E5%8E%9F%E5%9B%
A0&action=history)、翻訳のガイドラインも参照してください。要約欄への翻訳情報の記入をお忘れなく。
（2016年2月）
世界恐慌の原因(せかいきょうこうのげんいん)は経済学者達の活発な議論の主題となっており、これは広く見れば経済危機に関する議
論の一環でもある。だが一般的には、世界恐慌は1929年の株価大暴落により引き起こされたと信じられている。世界恐慌時に起きた
個々の経済的事件も徹底的に研究されてきた: そういった事件には、資産や商品価格のデフレ、需要と信用の急降下、貿易網の崩壊、
そして究極的に起こる失業とそれに続く貧困などがある。しかしながら、恐慌を引き起こし、あるいは恐慌からの回復をもたらした政府の
経済政策と個々の事件との因果関係は歴史家の間で意見の一致をみていない。
近年では、理論は二つの主流派といくつかの異説に大きく分けられる。
まず、ケインズ経済学や制度派経済学による需要主導モデルの理論では、不景気は消費不足と(それによってバブル経済が引き起こさ
れたところの)過剰投資によって引き起こされたと主張される。需要主導モデルの理論においては、信用が大きく損なわれたことで消費・
投資活動の急激な減少が起きたということで意見が一致している。一たび混乱・デフレが起こると、多くの人々は市場から距離を置くこと
でこれ以上の損失を回避しようとするというのである。このために物価は下がり続け、等量のお金でも多くの物品を買えるようになる。そ
の結果、お金を貯蓄に回すことが有利となり、更なる需要減少に見舞われることになる。
次に、マネタリストらによれば、世界恐慌は通常の不景気として始まったのだが、その時の通貨当局(特に連邦準備制度)による重大な政
策のミスが金融引締めという結果を招き、これによって経済状況が極端に悪化したために通常の不景気から世界恐慌に至ったという。こ
の説明は、負債デフレによって借り手は実質的により多くの債務を負うことになると指摘する人々と関連がある。
このほかにいくつかの異説があり、それらを支持してケインジアンやマネタリストの説明を否定する者がいる。新しい古典派マクロ経済学
者の中には、恐慌初期に課された様々な労働市場政策が長く深刻な世界恐慌を齎したと主張する者もいる。オーストリア経済学派は、
中央銀行の決定がどのようにして誤投資を招くかとマネーサプライのマクロ経済的影響に着目する。
目次
◾ 1 一般理論による説明
◾ 1.1 主流説
◾ 1.1.1 ケインジアン
◾ 1.1.2 マネタリスト
◾ 1.2 異説
◾ 1.2.1 オーストリア学派
◾ 1.2.2 マルクス主義
◾ 2 原因に関する個々の理論
◾ 2.1 負債デフレ
◾ 2.2 負債以外の原因によるデフレ
◾ 2.3 生産に対する衝撃
◾ 2.4 富と収入の不均衡
◾ 2.5 金本位制
◾ 2.6 金融機関の構造
◾ 2.7 保護貿易主義
◾ 2.8 国際的な債権構造
◾ 2.9 集団動力学
◾ 3 経済政策の役割
◾ 3.1 放任清算主義
◾ 3.2 オーストリア学派の政府膨張論
◾ 3.2.1 消費の増大
◾ 3.2.2 新たな公的規制
◾ 3.2.3 税率の引き上げ
◾ 4 関連項目
◾ 5 脚注
◾ 6 参考文献
◾ 7 関連文献
◾ 7.1 世界
◾ 7.2 アメリカ合衆国
◾ 7.3 連邦準備制度の役割
一般理論による説明
主流説
ケインジアン
多くの経済学者がその活動を主張するところの自己修正機構が不景気に働かないことがある理由は複数あると1936年に経済学者ジョ
ン・メイナード・ケインズが主張した。著書『雇用・利子および貨幣の一般理論』においてケインズは、世界恐慌を説明するための概念を導
入した。不景気時における不干渉主義政策に対する一つの主張として、もし貯蓄によって消費が落ち込むならば貯蓄は利率の低下をも
たらすというものがある。古典派経済学者によれば、低い利率は投資の拡大をもたらし需要が持続的になるという。
しかし、利率が低下しても投資が必ずしも活発にならないことの良い説明があるとケインズは主張する。利益を期待しての投資は事業に
よってもたらされる。それゆえ、消費の落ち込みが長期にわたるならば、事業の分析の傾向として将来の売り上げの期待は低いものとな
る。そのため、低利率によって資本が安価になっても将来の生産量を増大させるような投資は最も関心が向かないものとなるのである。
この場合、消費の減少によって経済は一斉安に陥る[1]。ケインズによれば、この自己強化的活動こそが恐慌時に非常に活発になり、倒
産が頻発して(将来に対する楽観的な期待が必要である)投資がほとんど起こらなくなったのだという。この説は経済学者によってしばし
ばセイの法則に反するものとして特徴づけられ、特にオーストリア経済学派に人気がある。
資本投資の減少が恐慌の原因であるという説は長期停滞論の中心的な主題である。
マネタリスト
1963年の著書『米国金融史 1867年-1960年』において、ミルトン・フリードマンとアンナ・シュウォーツは彼ら流の世界恐慌の説明を開陳し
た。彼らの考えによれば、本質的には、世界恐慌はマネーサプライの減少によってもたらされた。フリードマンとシュウォーツは次のように
書いている: 「1929年8月の周期的な山から1933年の周期的な谷までの間に、通貨流通量は3分の1強にまで落ち込んだ。」その結果が
フリードマンいう所の「大収縮」―金融引き締めの窒息効果による収入・物価・雇用の減退―である。この頃、連邦準備制度が供給する
より以上に人々はお金を欲していたのだとフリードマンとシュウォーツは主張する。その結果人々は消費を減らすことでお金を貯蓄した。
また、物価は即座に下落するほど融通が利かないために、結果として、雇用と生産の収縮が起きた。連邦の過ちは何が起こったのか分
からなかったことや正しい対応を取らなかったことにある[2]。
恐慌以降、その主要な説明はマネーサプライの重要性を無視する傾向があった。しかし、マネタリストによれば、恐慌は「事実上、金融の
効果の重要性の悲劇的な証明である[3]。」彼らによれば、連邦準備制度の世界恐慌に対処する上での失敗は、金融政策が無力である
ことの表れではなく、連邦準備制度が間違った政策を実行したことの表れであるという。彼らは連邦が恐慌を「起こした」と主張しているの
ではなく、不景気が恐慌になるのを防ぐ政策を使い損ねたと言っているだけである。
南北戦争後から20世紀初期にかけて、アメリカ合衆国とヨーロッパは政府が規定する形の金本位制を採用していた。この時期のアメリカ
経済は周期的な好不況の波を受けていた。不景気はしばしば銀行不況によって引き起こされていたとみられ、特に重要なものは1873
年、1893年、1901年、1907年、1920年に起こっている[4]。連邦準備制度が1913年に成立する以前のアメリカ合衆国では銀行システムが
紙幣の兌換性を停止することでこうした(1907年恐慌のような)危機に対処していた。1893年に開始して以降、金融機関やビジネスマンに
よる成長努力がこうした危機に介在し、取り付けに喘ぐ銀行に流動性をもたらしていた。1907年の銀行恐慌の際、J・P・モルガンの招集し
たその場限りの連合がこの方法でうまく介入し、それによって恐慌が遮断されており、このため通常銀行恐慌に続いて起こる大恐慌がこ
の時には起こらなかったのだとされる。政府がこうした解決策をとることが要求されたために連邦準備制度が設立されることとなった[5]。
しかし1928年-1932年には、連邦準備制度は取り付けにあえぐ銀行に流動性をもたらすことはなかった。実際にはその政策はマネーサプ
ライの急激な収縮を許すことで銀行危機に応えていた。狂騒の20年代には、中央銀行は第一の目標を「物価の安定」に定めていたが、
これはニューヨーク連邦準備銀行の総裁ベンジャミン・ストロングが、物価の安定を金融目標とした非常に著名な経済学者アーヴィング・
フィッシャーの弟子だからということもある。そういった事情から中央銀行は社会の物価が安定する程度にドルの流通量を保った。1928年
にストロングが死に、彼の死とともにこの政策が終了し、全ての通貨・証券は背後に実際的な物品を裏付けとして持っているべきだという
真正手形学説が取って代わった。この政策の為にアメリカ合衆国のマネーサプライは1929年から1933年の間に3分の1以上に減少するこ
とになった[6]。
この通貨減少によって銀行への取り付けが起こっても連邦は真正手形学説を保持し、1907年恐慌を遮ったときの方法で銀行に貸し付け
ることを拒否し、代わりに各銀行を破滅的な取り付けにあえぐままにさせ完全に没落させた。この政策によって連鎖的な銀行の倒産が起
こり、当時存在した銀行の3分の1が消滅した。[7]。ベン・バーナンキによれば、続いて起こった信用危機によってさらに倒産の波が起こっ
た[8]。1907年と同じ政策が1930年終わりの銀行恐慌の際にも採用されていればこれによって物価下落時の資産の流動化の強制の悪し
き連鎖が防げただろうとフリードマンは述べた。そうしていれば、1893年や1907年に兌換性停止によって当時の流動性危機がすぐに止ん
だのと同じく、1931年、1932年、1933年の銀行恐慌は起こらなかったであろうというのである[9]。
マネタリストによる説明はサミュエルソンの著書『経済学』において否定されており、「連邦準備制度の金融政策を景気循環を制御する万
能薬とみなす経済学者は今日ではほとんどいない。純粋に金融的なファクターは原因であるのと同じだけ徴候であると考えられる、悪化
させる効果を伴っており完全に無視すべきではない徴候ではあるが[10]。」と述べられている。ケインズ経済学者のポール・クルーグマン
によれば、フリードマンとシュウォーツの著作は1980年代までに主流派経済学者の間で支配的になったが、1990年代日本の「失われた
10年」の下に再考されるべきであるという[11]。経済危機における金融危機の役割は世界金融危機 (2007年-)に関する活発な議論で扱わ
れている。世界金融危機 (2007年-)の原因を参照。
異説
世界恐慌初期の取り付け騒ぎ時にニュー
ヨークのアメリカ連合銀行に集まった群衆
オーストリア学派
世界恐慌は1920年代の連邦準備制度の金融政策の避けられない結果だったとオーストリア経済学派は主張している。彼らの意見では、
この中央銀行の政策は持続不可能な信用によるにわか景気をもたらす「安直な信用政策」であった。オーストリア学派の考えでは、この
時期のマネーサプライのインフレが資産価値(有価証券)と資本財の両者において持続不可能なバブルを引き起こしたという。連邦準備
制度が1928年に遅れて金融引き締めを行うまでには、深刻な経済後退を避けるには手遅れになっていた[12]。1929年の大暴落の後の政
府の介入によって市場の調節が遅れ、完全な回復がより困難になる道が開かれたとオーストリア学派は主張している[13]。
世界恐慌の主原因に関するオーストリア学派の説明を受け入れることはマネタリストの説明の否定を受け入れることと両立する。『アメリ
カの世界恐慌』(1963年)の著者でオーストリア経済学派のマリー・ロスバードはマネタリストの説明を否定している。中央銀行はマネーサ
プライを十分に増やすのに失敗したのだというミルトン・フリードマンの主張をロスバードは批判し、代わりに、1932年に連邦準備制度が
11億ドルの米国債を買い入れて所有国債量を18億ドルとした際、連邦準備制度はインフレ政策を追求していたのだと主張する。中央銀
行の政策に反してデフレが深刻化したのは「マネーサプライ総量が30億ドルに達したのに（民間）銀行の準備金の総量は2億1200万ドル
に留まった」ためであり、これはアメリカの大衆が銀行組織に不信感を抱いてさらに多くの預金を銀行から引き出し退蔵したという、中央
銀行の制御を大きく超える理由によるものだと彼は主張する。ロスバードの主張によると、銀行に対する取付のおそれの為に地銀は準
備金の貸し出しにさらに消極的になり、このために連邦準備制度がインフレを起こせなかったという[14]ことになる。
ロスバードがマネタリストの説明を批判したことに対して、もう一人の卓越したオーストリア経済学派のメンバーフリードリヒ・ハイエクは反
対した。ハイエクは、自身が1930年に中央銀行のデフレ政策に反対しなかったことが誤っていたと1975年に認め、曖昧な態度をとったこ
とに関して釈明した: 「当時私は、幾分短い期間におけるデフレの過程は、(経済が機能することと両立不可能だと私が考えていたところ
の)賃金の硬直性を破壊するものだと考えていた[15]。」 1978年には彼は「一たび急落が起こると連邦準備制度は愚かなデフレ政策を追
求するようになるということに関してミルトン・フリードマンに賛成する」と述べてマネタリストの見解に賛成し、デフレに反対してインフレに
賛成することを明らかにした[16]。この流れを汲んで、マネーサプライの強い引き締めを許すような金融政策とハイエクの景気循環理論は
矛盾すると経済学者のローレンス・H・ホワイトが主張している。
マルクス主義
「資本主義#マルクス学派」も参照
マルクス主義者は概して、資本主義モデルに固有の不安定性が世界恐慌を引き起こしたのだと主張する[17]。
原因に関する個々の理論
負債デフレ
詳細は「負債デフレ」を参照
アメリカ合衆国のGDPに対する負債の割合は世界恐慌の時までには300%に達した。この
割合は20世紀終わりまで越えられることはなかった[18]。
ジェローム(1934年)は戦間期の産業の大発展を可能にした財政状態に関する原典不明の
引用をしている:
恐らく未だかつてこの国でこれほどの量の国債がこれほど低い利率、これほど長い
期間にわたって出されたことはなかった[19]。
さらに、スタンダード・スタティスティックス社による60度の国債の指数が1923年の4.98%から
4.47%になった際には新たな資本発行の量が1922年から1929年の年平均から7.7%増加し
たとジェロームは述べている。
1920年代には特にフロリダ州で不動産・住宅のバブルが起こったが1925年に破裂した。
1920年代の住宅建設は人口増加の勢いを25%上回っていたとアルヴィン・ハンセンが述べている[20]。参照:1920年代フロリダの土地バブ
ル
アーヴィング・フィッシャーは、世界恐慌を引き起こした主原因は負債過多とデフレだと主張した。フィッシャーは信用の低下を負債過多と
結びつけ、負債過多が投機熱と資産バブルを刺激したのだとしている[21]。負債・デフレという状況下で相互作用し、バブルが起こり崩壊
する仕組みを作りだした九つの要因を彼は概説している。それら先行する出来事の連鎖は以下:
1. 負債の流動化と占有権の売却
2. 銀行ローンとしてのマネーサプライの緊縮が清算される
3. 資産価格水準の低下
4. 全体としての商業価値の深刻な低下、突然の破産
5. 利益の低下
6. 商業・雇用における生産量の低下
7. 信用の減少とペシミズム
8. お金の死蔵
9. 名目金利の低下と利率にあわせたデフレの拡大[21]
ウォール街大暴落後にウォール街に群がる
群衆
世界恐慌に先行する1929年の急落の際、証拠金規定額は10%にすぎなかった[22]。つまり、
株式仲売業者は投資社が1ドル預けるごとに9ドル貸し付けた。市場が急落した際、業者は
こうしたローンを回収しようとしたが、それは返ってくることはなかった。債務者が債務不履
行を起こし、預金者が一斉に預金を回収しようとすることで取り付け騒ぎが起こり、銀行が
倒産し始めた。こうした騒ぎを食い止めるための政府の保証や連邦準備制度による銀行の
規制は効果がないか使われなかった。銀行の破産により数十億ドルの資産が失われた
[23]。
物価と収入が20-50%減少しているのに負債は同価格であるため、未払いの負債が重くのし
かかった。1929年の混乱の後、1930年最初の10か月間に744のアメリカ合衆国の銀行が破
産した(1930年代には全部で9000ほどの銀行が破産した)。1933年4月までに、3月の銀行の
法定休日の後に無資格の預金や破産した銀行の70億ドルの預金が凍結された[24]。
絶望した銀行家が、借り手が返すお金・時間を持てないほどの勢いで貸付金の回収を行う
とともに銀行の倒産が連鎖的に起こった。予測利益が低いものであったため、資本投資や
建築が停滞した。不良債権や将来の見通しの悪化に直面し、生きのこった銀行は貸付によ
り消極的になった[23]。銀行は基本準備金を増加させるとともに貸し付けを減らし、これに
よってデフレ圧を強めた。悪しき循環が進み、下降スパイラルが増加した。
負債の流動化は自身が引き起こした物価の下降を食い止められなかった。自身の資産を
流動させようという大衆の衝動的行動の大局的効果によってデフレが加速し、資産量減衰
の価値に影響した。自身の負債を減らそうとする個々人の努力こそが事実上それを増大さ
せていた。逆説的だが、負債者が払えば払うほど、彼らは負債を多く抱えることになった
[21]。この自己悪化の過程が1930年の不景気を1933年の世界恐慌へ変えた。
連邦準備銀行の総裁ベン・バーナンキのようなマクロ経済学者がフィッシャーに由来する世界恐慌の負債デフレ説を復活させた[25][26]。
負債以外の原因によるデフレ
負債デフレに加えて、19世紀最後の四半世紀の大デフレ以降に起こった生産性デフレの構成要素が存在した[27] 。第一次世界大戦に
よって起こったインフレを強める補正もおそらく継続していた。
48州で見つかった中でも最大の油田、東テキサス油田が操業して、1930年代には原油価格が歴代最安値に達していた。原油市場にお
ける過剰供給のため価格は10セント/バレルにまで低下していた[28]。参照: 世界恐慌の原因#生産に対する衝撃
生産に対する衝撃
20世紀最初の30年には資本投資と経済生産高が電化・大量生産・輸送機関の電動化・農業の機械化とともに湧き起こり、生産性の急速
な増加により、多くの工場の閉鎖や物価の下落とともに余剰生産能力の増大が見られた[19][29]。結果として、世界恐慌の前の10年には
一週の労働時間が僅かに減少していた[30][31][32]。世界恐慌によってさらに多くの工場が閉鎖した[19]。
「我々の述べる[生産性、生産高、雇用の]傾向が1929年以前に完全に明白だったことをあまり極端に強調することはできな
い。この傾向はこの恐慌の結果では決してないし、世界大戦の結果でもない。そうではなくて、この恐慌はこういった長期に
わたる傾向の結果起こった崩壊なのである[33]。」マリオン・キング・ヒューバート
全米経済研究所の援助により出版されたジェローム『産業の機械化』(1934年)には、機械化が生産高を増大させる傾向を持つのか労働
力を解雇する傾向を持つのかは生産物の要求の弾力性に依存すると述べられている[19]。また、生産コスト現象は必ずしも消費者に還元
されない。さらに、第一次世界大戦以降ウマやラバが非動物の動力に取って代わられるとともに家畜飼料の需要が減少して農業は不利
な影響を被ったと述べられている。「技術的失業」という術語は世界恐慌時の労働環境を表すのに使われるとも『産業の機械化』に記さ
れている[19]。
「戦間期アメリカ合衆国の特徴である失業の増大の幾分かは非弾力的需要に応じた商品を生産する産業の機械化が原因
であるといえるだろう[19]。」フレデリック・C・ウェルズ、1934年
1923年の景気循環の頂点からしばらく後、過剰な労働者が雇用創生と比較して生産性発展により取って代わられており、1925年以降の
失業の拡大を引き起こした[34][29]。
アメリカ合衆国の主要産業の生産性の劇的な拡大とその生産品、賃金、労働時間に対する影響が、ブルッキングス研究所の支援により
出版された書籍の中で議論されている。[27]
肥料、機械化、品種改良を通じた生産性ショックこそが農産物価格の低下を引き起こしたのだとジョセフ・スティグリッツとブルース・グリー
ンウォルドが主張した。農家は過剰な労働力供給を加えた土地に押し込められていたのだという[35]。
農産物価格は第一次世界大戦後に低下し始めた。結果的に多くの農家が商売として農業を成り立たせられなくなり、数百の小規模な地
銀の倒産を招いた。トラクター、肥料、雑種トウモロコシによる農業生産性は問題の一部にすぎなかった; 他の問題とはウマ・ラバから内
燃力輸送機関への転換であった。ウマ・ラバの数は第一次世界大戦以降減少し始め、家畜飼料を生産していた大量の土地が余るように
なった[19][36]。
自動車・バスが電車の発展を止めるようになった[37]。
富と収入の不均衡
ウォディル・キャッチングズ、ウィリアム・トゥルファント・フォスター、レックスフォード・タグウェル、アドルフ・バール(、そして後にはジョン・ケ
ネス・ガルブレイス)といった経済学者はフランクリン・ルーズベルトに幾分かの影響を与えた理論を普及させた[38]。その理論とは、経済
が、消費者に十分な収入がないにもかかわらず、消費者が購入できる以上の商品を生産してしまった、というものである[39][40][41]。この説
によれば、1920年代の賃金の上昇率は生産性の上昇率を下回っていたのである。生産性が増大したことによる恩恵のほとんどは利潤と
なってしまい、それは株式市場バブルを引き起こしたものの、消費者の購買行動には繋がらなかった。このように、1920年代を通じて富
が不平等に分配されたことが世界恐慌を引き起こしたという。
この説によれば、世界恐慌の根本的な原因は、独立企業による賃金・収入の水準が十分な購買力を生み出すに達していないにもかか
わらず行われた世界的な過剰投資である。また、政府は富裕層に対する課税を重くすることで収入をより平等にすべきだった、と主張さ
れる。政府は、歳入の増加を利用して公共事業を行って雇用を増加させることで経済を「蹴って始動」させられた、という。だがアメリカ合
衆国では1932年まで、これとは正反対の経済政策が行われていたのである。大統領退任前年のハーバート・フーヴァーに紹介されフラ
ンクリン・ルーズベルトによって採用されることになった<1932年歳入法>や公共事業計画が、購買力をある程度再分配することに成功し
たのである[42][43]。
金本位制
世界恐慌の金本位制理論によれば、恐慌の原因は主に、第一次世界大戦後の西側諸国が戦前の値段に基づく金本位制に復帰しようと
したことにである。この説によれば、これによって金融政策がデフレ志向になり10年間にわたってヨーロッパの多くの国の経済の健全性を
害し続けたという。
この戦後政策に先駆けてインフレ政策がとられていた第一次世界大戦中には、多くのヨーロッパ諸国は戦費の激増により金本位制を廃
止せざるを得なかった。この結果、新しく作られた金の供給がインフレを中和させる生産性への投資ではなく戦費に使われたため、インフ
レが起こった。この説は、大量に導入された金の量によってインフレ率が決まり、それゆえインフレへ導くことが、破壊的・消費的であって
経済成長を導かない目的のために造られた新貨幣の総量を減少させるというものである。
戦後アメリカやヨーロッパ諸国が金本位制に復帰した際、多くの国は戦前の水準の金-通貨レートをとった。例えばイギリスでは1925年に
金本位法が国会を通過し、これによって金本位制に復帰した際、当時外国為替市場で戦前よりもずっと低い価格でポンドが取引されて
いたにもかかわらずスターリング・ポンドを戦前と等価に設定するという致命的な決定を行った。当時ジョン・メイナード・ケインズらは、政
府はそうすることによって釣り合いが取れていないような賃金再設定を強いているのだと主張してこの決定を批判した。ウィンストン・
チャーチルが金本位制に復帰させたことに対するケインズの批判はこれを暗にヴェルサイユ条約の結果と比較するものであった。
戦前と等価にしようという傾向が生まれた理由として一つは、デフレは危険ではないのに対してインフレは、特にヴァイマール共和国に見
られるインフレは耐え難い危険であるという当時優勢であった意見があった。もう一つの理由として、額面価額で貸し付けている者は自
身が貸し付けたのと同価値の金を回復できる期待があったというものがある[citation needed]。フランスに支払わなければならない巨額
の賠償金を支払うための外貨を獲得するのに十分な商品を輸出・販売するために、ドイツは信用を犠牲にした成長の時代に入った。世
界の金の溜まる場所としてのアメリカ合衆国はドイツがフランスに償還するための基盤として産業化するための資金を貸し付け、フランス
はイギリスおよびアメリカに償還した。この流れはドーズ案に明文化された。
非常に高利の借金をして再融資もできない状態にあるか、低利率ではないときに資本財に融資するための貸し付けに依存している場
合、農業のような産業分野にとってデフレは辛いものとなりうる。負債の実質的価値が増加しているのに対して物価はデフレに浸食され
ていく。資産を現金で保持している者や、資産を投資・購買に充てたり資金を貸し付けたりしようとしている者にとってはデフレは有益であ
る。
ピーター・テミン、ベン・バーナンキ、バリー・アイケングリーンといった経済学者によるより近年の研究は、世界恐慌時に緊縮政策がとら
れていたことに着目している。この考え方によれば、戦間期の金本位制下での緊縮は最初の経済的ショックを拡大し、恐慌を食い止める
あらゆる行動に対して大きな障害となったという。彼らによれば、最初の不安定化させる衝撃はアメリカ合衆国のウォール街大暴落に起
因するが、外国に問題を伝播させたのは金本位制であるという[44]。
彼らの出した結論によると、危機の時代の政策決定者たちは金融政策・財政政策を緩和しようとしたが、そのような行動が、契約上の率
で金を交換する義務を維持する国家の能力を脅かしたという。外国の資産を金で買おうとする国際的投資家を引き付けるために、金本
位制は高利率を維持することを要求する。そのため、金本位制を廃止しない限り、政府は景気の急落にも手をこまねいているほかない。
金本位制をとる全ての国の交換比率を修正することで、外国為替市場が利率の平衡を保つ事だけは保証される。恐慌が悪化すると多く
の国が金本位制を廃止し始め、より早く廃止した国々はより少なくデフレの影響を受けてより早くデフレから回復する傾向があった[45]。
自由銀行制派経済学者にしてミルトン・フリードマンの弟子のリチャード・ティンバーレイクは自身の立場を『アメリカ合衆国の金融政策に
みられる金本位制と実質手形原理』で明確に説明したが、この論文での彼の主張によると、連邦準備制度は実は金本位制化においてか
なりの余裕を持っており、そのことがニューヨーク連邦準備銀行総裁ベンジャミン・ストロングによる1923年から1928年の物価安定政策に
よって証明されたという。しかし1928年後半にストロングが没すると、ニューヨーク連邦準備銀行の支配権を引き継いだ派閥が、全ての金
は実際の商品によって代表されなければならないという実質手形原理を唱道した。ドルに30%のデフレを強いて当然合衆国経済に損害
を与えたこの政策は恣意的で、避けられるものであって、金本位制はこれなしに存続できたとティンバーレイクが述べている:
金の管理におけるこの移行は決定的であった。ストロングは前任者に従って金本位制という足かせに頓着せずに物価安定政策を
実行し、実質手形原理の支持者は自身の理想とする政策を実行する上で同様に束縛を受けずに済んだ。1928年-1929年のシステ
ムポリシーは結果的に物価安定から受動的な実質手形に移行した。「この」金本位制はそれが再出現するのに好都合な時を待つ
形式的な見せ掛けでしかない場所で残存した[46]。
金融機関の構造
経済史家(特にフリードマンとシュウォーツ)が多くの銀行が倒産したことの重要性を強調する。倒産は主にアメリカの地方で起こった。地
域経済の構造的な脆弱性によって地銀が非常に貧弱になっていたのである。農家は既に多額の負債を抱えており、1920年代に農場価
格が急落するのと負債の予想実質比率が跳ね上がるのとを目にした。
ニューヨーク株価指数
彼らの土地は(1919年の地価バブルの結果として)過剰に法的義務
を負わされており、穀物の価格が低いために彼らは所有物を売り
払うことを強いられた。小銀行、特に農業経済と結びついた小銀行
は1920年代には突然の実質利率の上昇による顧客の債務不履行
のために常に危機的状況にあった; こういった小銀行の間には20
年代を通じて既に倒産の波が押し寄せていたのである。
都銀もまたショックへの弱さをもたらす構造的脆弱性に苦しんでい
た。国内最大の銀行の中には適量の準備金を保持せずに、株式市
場で大量の投資を行ったりリスクの高い貸し付けを行ったりするも
のもあった。ニューヨーク市銀によるドイツやラテンアメリカへの貸し
付けは特に高リスクであった。つまり、銀行機構は大不景気の
ショックを低減するように十分に準備されていなかったのである。
ウォール街大暴落に関する事実をどれだけ特定できるか経済学
者・歴史家が議論している。時期は明らかである。; 将来の利益に
対する期待への衝撃は甚大であった。1928年-1929年の市場はファ
ンダメンタルズによって定められたよりも極端に物価が高い「バブ
ル」であったとほとんどのアナリストが考えている。そのことに何らかの点で責任があるが、どれだけ責任があるかを推量することはでき
ないと経済学者たちは認めている。「1929年の株式市場の崩壊が最初の不景気に役割を果たしたことは片時も疑えない[47]」とミルトン・
フリードマンが結論付けている。
議論は三つのグループに分かれている: 最初のグループは、急落が将来の予想の劇的な低下と大量の資本投資の撤退とによって恐慌
を引き起こしたと述べる; 第二のグループは、1929年夏に景気がずり落ちて急落がそれを追認したと述べる; 第三のグループは、どちら
のシナリオにおいても急落は不景気を引き起こす以上のことはなしえないと述べる。市場は1930年4月には一旦回復したが、それ以降物
価は再び下がり続け、1932年7月にやっと最終的な底値に達した。これはどう計ってもアメリカ合衆国で最長期間の市場の衰退である。
1930年の不景気から1931年-1932年の大恐慌への遷移の為に、全く異なる要因が役割を果たしたのである[48]。
保護貿易主義
スムート・ホーリー法にみられるような保護貿易主義は、保護貿易主義政策をとってその結果近隣窮乏化政策に至った国々とともに、世
界恐慌の原因としてしばしば挙げられる[49][50]。スムート・ホーリー法は農家の債務不履行を招いており、特に農業に対して有害であっ
た。この出来事により中西部や西部での取り付けが起こったか悪化したかして、その結果銀行機構が崩壊した。1000人以上の経済学者
が署名した嘆願書が連邦政府に提出され、その嘆願書中でスムート・ホーリー法が経済に壊滅的な影響をもたらすという警告がなされ
た; しかし、これによってスムート・ホーリー法の議会通過が覆ることはなかった。
変動相場制ではなく金本位制をとる国で保護貿易主義が採用されたことを鑑み、保護貿易主義は恐慌の原因ではなく恐慌に対する「反
応」であったと主張する経済学者もいる[50]: 金本位制をとる国々は利率を切り下げたり最後の貸し手となったりすることができなかった、
というのはそれらの国々はいずれ金を切らすが、金本位制を取らない国々は利率を切り下げて不換紙幣を印刷することができるからで
ある。この解釈の下では、保護貿易主義は、金融政策が金本位制に縛られている国々の貿易条件を変化させるのに一役買ったといえ
る。
国際的な債権構造
1918年に終戦を迎えると、ヨーロッパの国でアメリカ合衆国と提携している国は全てアメリカの銀行から多額の借金をし、その借金の総
額はそれらの国々の大戦で蕩尽された国庫では支払いきれないほどになった。これが、連合国がドイツやオーストリア・ハンガリーに対し
て(ウッドロウ・ウィルソンを驚嘆させたほどの)賠償金を要求した理由の一つである。連合国の信ずるところによれば、賠償金のおかげで
連合国は負債を清算する目途がたつはずだった。しかし、ドイツとオーストリア・ハンガリー自身が戦後に深刻な経済危機に陥っていた;
連合国が負債を支払えない以上にドイツとオーストリア・ハンガリーが賠償金を支払えないという状況であった。
債務国は1920年代にアメリカ合衆国に負債の免除か少なくとも負債の軽減を行うことを強く要求した。対するアメリカ政府はその要求を
拒否した。代わりに、アメリカの銀行が欧州諸国に対して大規模な貸し付けを始めた。そのため、負債(と賠償金)は古い負債を増額させ
て新しい負債を積み重ねることによってのみ支払われる。1920年代後半には、特にアメリカ経済が1929年以降に弱体化してからは、欧
州諸国がアメリカからさらに金を借りるのが困難になった。同時に、アメリカの高い関税によって、欧州諸国が商品をアメリカ市場で売る
のが非常に困難になった。借金を払い戻すために貿易によって収入を得ることもできず、欧州諸国は債務不履行を起こし始めた。
1920年代後半になると、ヨーロッパのアメリカに対する商品需要は減少し始めた。これは、ヨーロッパの産業・農業の生産性が増したから
というのもあるし、いくつかの欧州諸国(最も顕著なのはヴァイマル共和制下のドイツ)が深刻な経済危機にあえいでいて外国の商品を買
う余裕がなかったからというのもある。しかし、1920年代後半にヨーロッパ経済を不安定化させた主原因は、第一次世界大戦の余波の中
で起きた国際的債権構造である。
スムート・ホーリー法のような関税障壁によって戦争負債の支払いが致命的に妨害された。アメリカ合衆国の高関税の結果、ある種の循
環のみによって賠償金や戦争支払いの続行がなされた。1920年代に、かつての連合国は主にドイツの賠償金支払いによって得られた
資金によって戦争負債を分割支払いし、ドイツはアメリカ合衆国とイギリスからの私的な借金によってのみ支払うことができた。同様に、
アメリカが海外に投資したドルのみによって諸外国がアメリカの輸出品を購入することができた。
1929年の株式市場急落に続く流動性の奪い合いの中、ヨーロッパからアメリカへ資金が回収され、ヨーロッパの脆弱な経済が砕け散っ
た。
1931年までに、世界は近現代で最悪の恐慌によってがたつき、賠償金や戦争負債の構造全体が崩壊した。
10億固定ドル価による1920年-1940年のアメリカ合衆国の年毎
のGDPと長期間の趨勢
集団動力学
1939年に、著名な経済学者アルヴィン・ハンセンが恐慌と連動して人口増加率が減少すると主張した[51]。同じ説が1978年の雑誌記事で
マニトバ大学の経済学者クラレンス・バーバーによって主張された。一種のハロッド・ドーマーモデルを用いて世界恐慌を分析し、彼はこう
述べている:
「このモデルでは、ハロッドの自然成長率の減少を生み出す状況に、より具体的には人口増加率、労働力増加率、生産性・技術発
展性の増加率が正当な成長率以下にまで減少している中に、深刻な恐慌の起源を探ることになる[52]。
1920年代の「生産性成長率」の減少の「はっきりした証拠はない」が、同時期の人口増加率現象の「はっきりした証拠」はあるとバーバー
は述べている。深刻な恐慌を引き起こすうえで十分重要な「自然成長率」の減少は人口増加率現象によって起きたのであろうと彼は述べ
ている[52]。
バーバーは、おそらく人口増加率の減少が住宅需要に影響したのだろうと述べ、これが1920年代に起こったことと見受けられると主張し
ている。かれはこう結論している:
「農家以外の家庭の急速で非常に大規模な増加率減少こそが明らかに、1926年以降のアメリカ合衆国の住宅建築界に起こったこ
とである。そしてこの減少が、ボルチとピルグリムが主張し続けているように、1929年の都心の大恐慌への転換の最も重要な一要
因なのであろう[53]。」
1920年代の人口増加率現象の原因の中には1910年以降の出産率低下[54]や移民の減少がある。移民の減少は主に1920年代に大幅な
移民抑制策がとられたことにある。1921年に緊急移民制限法が議会を通過し、続いて1924年移民法が制定された。
経済政策の役割
放任清算主義
今日の主流派経済学派の考えでは、政府は広く名目上の累計を安定した
成長傾向に留めておくよう努力すべきだった(新しい古典派やマネタリストに
とって、基準は名目マネーサプライである; ケインズ経済学派にとって、基
準は名目総需要それ自体である)。名目マネーストックと総名目需要を急落
しないよう保つために、恐慌期には、中央銀行は銀行機構に流動性を注入
するべきであり、政府は税率を切り下げ消費を促進すべきであった[55]。
連邦政府と連邦準備制度は1929年-1932年にこれを行わず、世界恐慌へと
陥った。経済史家の間で一般的になってきている説では、連邦準備制度の
政策決定者たちの清算主義理論への執着が破滅的な結果を招いたとされ
る[56]。「清算主義」の存在が世界恐慌という宿痾と戦わない公共政策を決
定する動機づけをするうえで重要な役割を果たした。フーヴァー大統領はこ
う書いている:[57]
“ メロン財務長官に率いられた放任清算主義者たちが[...]政
府は手を出さずにスランプ自己清算するのに任せるべきだ
と感じている。メロン氏はたった一つの方策を持っている:
「労働を清算せよ、株式を清算せよ、農家を清算せよ、不動
産を清算せよ」[...]「それによってシステムから腐敗が排除
される。高額の生命、高い生命は低下する。人々はより働
き、より道徳的に生活するようになる。価値観が調節され、
人々を楽しませることが競争力に劣る人々の破滅を防ぐ。」”
「ケインジアン革命」以前は、このような清算主義理論が経済学者のとる一般的立場であり、フリードリヒ・ハイエク、ライオネル・ロビン
ズ、ヨーゼフ・シュンペーター、シーモア・ハリスといった経済学者によってこの理論が主張・発展させられた[58]。清算主義者によれば恐慌
は良薬である。恐慌の機能は、非生産的な使用から生産の要因(資本と労働)を解放するために、技術的発展のために時代遅れとなり失
敗した投資・ビジネスを清算することだとされた。それらの要因は技術的に活発な経済分野に回された。彼らは1920年-1921年の恐慌に
言及して、この恐慌は1920年代後半の繁栄の基礎を築いたと主張した。彼らは(1921年に既に実行されていた)デフレ政策をとることを要
求し、この政策は資本・労働力を非生産的な活動から解放して新たな経済的バブルの基礎を築くのに使うものだと主張した。経済の自己
調節が大量の倒産を起こすとしても、そうなるのに任せておくべきだと清算主義者たちは主張した[59]。というのは、聖餐過程を延期するこ
とは徒に社会的コストを増大させるだけだと彼らが考えていたからである。シュンペーターの著作によれば、それは[60]
“ [...]回復は、ひとりでに起こったときにのみ健全であると私たちに信じさせてくれる。人工的な刺激のみによるいかなる復
活も、十分に恐慌の働きが行き届かない部分を残し、環境不適応だった部分が消化され切らずに残った部分に対してそ
れ自体の新たな環境不適応が加えられ、それがまた生産を必要とするようになり、後々に別の[より悪い)危機によって商
業を脅かすのである。”
清算主義者の期待に反して、株式資本の大部分は世界恐慌一年目に転換・消去されなかった。オリヴィエ・ブランチャードとローレンス・
サマーズの研究によれば、1933年までに不景気によって1924年以前のレベルの資本蓄積が起こった[61]。
ジョン・メイナード・ケインズやミルトン・フリードマンといった経済学者は、清算主義理論から帰結する放置策が世界恐慌の深刻化に資し
たと主張している[62]。ケインズは嘲笑のレトリックによって、ハイエク、ロビンズ、シュンペーターを以下のように表すことで清算主義思想
の信用を失わせようとした。
“ [...]禁欲的・清教徒的な心根が[世界恐慌を][...]彼らの言うところの「過膨張」にたいする不可避にして望ましい報いとして
扱う[...]。それは、過剰な繁栄が続く全体的な倒産によってバランスがとられなかったときに、不正な富に対して起こる勝
利だと彼らは感じている。自分たちが丁重にも「延期された清算」と呼ぶものが自分たちを正してくれることを望むと彼ら
は述べている。彼らが我々に述べるところによると、清算は未だ完了していない。しかしやがては完了する。そして清算
が完了するのに十分な時間がたてば、全ては再び我々にとって良くなる[...]
”
ミルトン・フリードマンは、こういった「危険なナンセンス」はシカゴ大学では決して教えられていないこと、なぜ(このナンセンスが教えられ
ている)ハーヴァードで若く明敏な経済学者達が自分たちの師のマクロ経済学を否定してケインジアンに転向するのかを自分は分かって
いること、を述べた[63]。彼はこう書いている:
“ 私が思うにオーストリア学派の景気循環理論は世界に大きな悪影響をもたらした。あなたがキー・ポイントたる1930年代
に戻れば、ロンドンにオーストリア学派がはびこっているのが見られて、ハイエクやライオネル・ロビンズに世界が景気の
底にあるのを放置しろと言われるだろう。あなたはそれに従って景気が自己回復するに任せることになるだろう。それに
対して何かをすることは許されない。何をしてもより悪くなるだけなのだから。[...]私が思うにこの種の放置策に焚き付けら
れて、イギリスでもアメリカでも彼らは害を為したのである[64]。”
経済学者ローレンス・H・ホワイトは、ハイエクとロビンズが1930年代初期のデフレ政策に積極的には反対しなかったことを認めたが、そ
れにも関わらず、ハイエクが清算主義の唱道者であったというミルトン・フリードマン、ジェームズ・ブラッドフォード・デロングその他の主張
に挑戦した。ハイエクとロビンズの景気循環理論(後に今日知られているようなオーストリア景気循環理論に発展する)は実はマネーサプ
ライの強い引き締めを許すような金融政策とは矛盾するものだったとホワイトは主張する。それにもかかわらず、世界恐慌の際にはハイ
エクは「1929年-1932年の強いデフレと名目収入の萎縮に曖昧な態度をとった[65]」とホワイトは述べている。1975年の講話で、ハイエクは
自身が40年以上前に中央銀行のデフレ政策に反対しなかったことの非を認め、曖昧な理由をとったことの理由を説明した: 「当時私はあ
る程度短期間のデフレの過程は、経済が機能することと相容れないと私が考えていた賃金の硬直性を破壊すると信じていた[66]。」その
三年後、ハイエクは世界恐慌初期の連邦の突然のマネーサプライの引き締めと連邦が銀行に流動性を供給するのに失敗したことを強く
批判した:
“ 「一たび急落が起こると連邦準備制度が愚かなデフレ政策に走ったという点に関して私はミルトン・フリードマンに同意す
る。私は単にインフレに反対しているのではなく、デフレにも反対している。だから、もう一度、間違って計画された金融政
策が恐慌を引き延ばす[67]。”
オーストリア学派の政府膨張論
消費の増大
フーヴァーが連邦政府の消費を50%引き上げたのは効果的だった。ほとんどの増大が1932年に起こり、それに同調して長い不景気が
ゆっくりと終わりを迎えた。オーストリア経済学派の中でも自由銀行制派に属する経済学者スティーヴン・ホーウィッツは、短い不景気だっ
たはずのものを長引かせて「大恐慌」にしてしまったとしてフーヴァーの消費を責めている:
短い不景気に終わるはずだったものを、より深刻で、ずっと長い大恐慌に変えてしまったという批判をハーヴァート・フーヴァーはう
まく捌いている[...]彼は恐慌と戦うために政府の役割を大きく拡張した[...]その結果は、不幸なことに(しかし驚くべきことではなく)、
火と上手く戦ったというよりもむしろ炎を煽った[68]。
デイヴィッド・ワインバーガーは、このアプローチを、ウィルソンの強い連邦政府が引き起こした恐慌の下で経済を劇的に刺激したと彼が
述べた(正当なチャートにおいても見られる)クーリッジ政権下の消費・税・赤字の切り下げと対比した[69]。クーリッジ政権の商務長官とし
てフーヴァーが消費増大とクーリッジの下での規制を奨励したが、多くの部分を1929年に彼自身が実行したことに彼は注目する[70]。GDP
に占める連邦の消費が成長し続けていたことを発見したランダル・グレゴリー・ホルコムが述べているように、フーヴァーの下でのこの大
成長はフーヴァーによる景気下降で歳入を減らしたとしても事実連邦準備制度の下で以上の事がなされたことは明らかだという[71]。
新たな公的規制
著書『アメリカの世界恐慌』、『ハーバート・フーヴァーの恐慌』その他において、マリー・ロスバードは、フーヴァーが示した産業・農業・雇
用といった分野における新たな連邦規制の一覧を提示したが、彼はそれを世界恐慌をもたらした連邦準備制度の干渉主義と結びつけて
述べた[72]。
税率の引き上げ
1932年にフーヴァーは歳入法を制定して税率を劇的に引き上げた。彼はあらゆる層に対する税を引き上げ、最貧困層に対する税を三倍
にして富裕層に対する税率を25%から63%に上げた[73][74]。この高率の税は会計年度であり長い不景気が終わった年に同調して支払わ
れた。
関連項目
◾ 政治哲学
◾ 世界恐慌のタイムライン
脚注
1. ^ Keen 2000, p.198.
2. ^ Paul Krugman, "Who Was Milton Friedman?" New York Review of
Books Volume 32, Number 32 · February 3, 2007 online community
(http://www.nybooks.com/articles/19857)
3. ^ Friedman 1965, p.4.
4. ^ The History of Economic Downturns in the US -- But Now You
Know.net (http://butnowyouknow.wordpress.com/those-who-fail-tolearn-
from-history/history-of-economic-downturns-in-the-us/)
5. ^ * Bruner, Robert F.; Carr, Sean D. (2007), The Panic of 1907:
Lessons Learned from the Market's Perfect Storm, Hoboken, New
Jersey: John Wiley & Sons, ISBN 978-0-470-15263-8
6. ^ Gold Standards and the Real Bills Doctrine in US Monetary Policy,
Richard H Timberlake, published in Econ Journal Watch, August
2005 --
http://www.econjournalwatch.org/pdf/TimberlakeIntellectualTyrannyAugust2005.pdf
7. ^ Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar
publishing, 2003, ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 11
8. ^ Ben Bernanke, "Non-monetary effects of the financial crisis in the
propagation of the Great Depression", (1983) American Economic
Review . Am 73#3 257–76.
9. ^ Friedman 2007, p.15.
10. ^ (Samuelson 1948, p. 353)
11. ^ Samuelson, Friedman, and monetary policy
(http://krugman.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/12/14/samuelson-friedmanand-
monetary-policy/), Paul Krugman, New York Times Blog,
December 14, 2009
12. ^ Murray Rothbard, America's Great Depression (Ludwig von Mises
Institute, 2000), pp. 159-163.
13. ^ Rothbard, America's Great Depression, pp. 19-21"
14. ^ Rothbard, A History of Money and Banking in the United States,
pp.293-294.
15. ^ White, Clash of Economic Ideas, p. 94. See alsoWhite, Lawrence
(2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?”.
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751–768.
doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x (http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%
2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
16. ^ F. A. Hayek, interviewed by Diego Pizano July, 1979 published in:
Diego Pizano, Conversations with Great Economists: Friedrich A.
Hayek, John Hicks, Nicholas Kaldor, Leonid V. Kantorovich, Joan
Robinson, Paul A.Samuelson, Jan Tinbergen (Jorge Pinto Books,
2009).
17. ^ http://www.marxists.org/archive/corey/1934/decline/index.html
18. ^ [1]
(http://www.johnmauldin.com/images/uploads/pdf/mwo071811.pdf)
Several graphs of total debt to GDP can be found on the Internet.
19. ^ a b c d e f g Jerome, Harry (1934). Mechanization in Industry,
National Bureau of Economic Research
20. ^ Hansen, Alvin (1939). “Economic Progress and Declining
Population Growth”. American Economic Review' 29 (March)
21. ^ a b c Fisher, Irving (October 1933). “The Debt-Deflation Theory of
Great Depressions”. Econometrica (The Econometric Society) 1 (4):
337–357. doi:10.2307/1907327 (http://dx.doi.org/10.2307%
2F1907327). JSTOR 1907327 (http://www.jstor.org/stable/1907327).
22. ^ Fortune, Peter (Sept-Oct, 2000). “Margin Requirements, Margin
Loans, and Margin Rates: Practice and Principles - analysis of history
of margin credit regulations - Statistical Data
Included” (http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m3937/is_2000_Sept-
Oct/ai_80855422/pg_3/?tag=content;col1). New England Economic
Review.
23. ^ a b “Bank Failures
(http://www.livinghistoryfarm.org/farminginthe30s/money_08.html)”.
Living History Farm. 2008年5月22日閲覧。
24. ^ "Friedman and Schwartz, Monetary History of the United States",
352
25. ^ Bernanke, Ben S (June 1983). “Non-Monetary Effects of the
Financial Crisis in the Propagation of the Great Depression”. The
American Economic Review (The American Economic Association)
73 (3): 257–276. JSTOR 1808111
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/1808111).
26. ^ Mishkin, Fredric (December 1978). “The Household Balance and
the Great Depression”. Journal of Economic History 38 (04): 918–37.
doi:10.1017/S0022050700087167 (http://dx.doi.org/10.1017%
2FS0022050700087167).
27. ^ a b Bell, Spurgeon (1940). Productivity, Wages and National
Income , The Institute of Economics of the Brookings Institution
28. ^ [|Yergin, Daniel
(https://www.cera.com/aspx/cda/public1/about/expertise/personPopup.aspx?
iAuthorPK=112)] (1992). The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money $
Power.
29. ^ a b Beaudreau, Bernard C. (1996). Mass Production, the Stock
Market Crash and the Great Depression. New York, Lincoln,
Shanghi: Authors Choice Press.
30. ^ “Hours of Work in U.S. History
(http://eh.net/encyclopedia/article/whaples.work.hours.us)” (2010年).
2012年8月28日閲覧。
31. ^ Whaples, Robert (1991, June). The Shortening of the American
Work Week: An Economic and Historical Analysis of Its Context,
Causes, and Consequences, The Journal of Economic History, Vol.
51, No. 2; pp. 454-457
32. ^ “Technological Change and Economic Growth the Interwar Years
and the 1990s (http://www.econ.yale.edu/seminars/echist/eh04/field-
041006.pdf)” (2004年). 2012年8月28日閲覧。
33. ^ Hubbert, M. King (1940).
http://www.scribd.com/doc/22289589/Man-Hours-and-Distribution-
M-King-Hubbert Man Hours and Distribution , Derived from Man
Hours: A Declining Quantity, Technocracy, Series A, No. 8, August
1936 (http://www.)
34. ^ Jerome, Harry (1934). Mechanization in Industry, National Bureau
of Economic Research<For the several industries studied industry
expansion offset most of the productivity gains that would otherwise
resulted in many more job losses than actually occurred. To prevent
rising unemployment the laid off workers would have to have
changed industries, but it was noted that even if workers were
successful at such a change the time typically took 18 months or
more. The employment statistics for the 1930 census reflect
conditions after the start of the depression so the actual employment
situation prior to the depression is unknown.>
35. ^ Stiglitz, Joseph (2011), “The Book of
Jobs” (http://www.vanityfair.com/politics/2012/01/stiglitzdepression-
201201), Vanity Fair 23/12/2011閲覧。
36. ^ Ayres, R. U.; Ayres, L. W.; Warr, B. (2002). Exergy, Power and
Work in the U. S. Economy 1900-1998, Insead’s Center For the
Management of Environmental Resources, 2002/52/EPS/CMER
(http://terra2000.free.fr/downloads/expowork.pdf)<Fig. 4 in
Appendix>From one-sixth to one-quarter of all land had been used to
grow animal feed.
37. ^ General Motors and the Decline of Streetcars
(http://debunkportland.com/printables/TQOrigin.pdf)
38. ^ David M. Kennedy, 'Freedom From Fear, The American People in
Depression and War 1929 - 1945, Oxford University Press, 1999,
ISBN 0-19-503834-7, p. 122, 123
39. ^ Dorfman,1959
40. ^ Allgoewer, Elisabeth (May 2002). “Underconsumption theories and
Keynesian economics. Interpretations of the Great
Depression” (http://www.vwa.unisg.ch/RePEc/usg/dp2002/dp0214allgoewer_ganz.pdf).
Discussion paper no. 2002-14.
41. ^ Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA
1890–1954, Hodder Education, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p.
108
42. ^ Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA
1890–1954, Hodder Education, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p.
108
43. ^ The Road to Plenty (1928)
44. ^ Eichengreen 1992, p.xi
45. ^ Bernanke 2002, p.80
46. ^ Gold Standards and the Real Bills Doctrine in U.S. Monetary
Policy, RICHARD H. TIMBERLAKE
http://www.econjournalwatch.org/pdf/TimberlakeIntellectualTyrannyAugust2005.pdf
47. ^ Parker, p.49.
48. ^ White, 1990.
49. ^ Protectionism and the Great Depression
(http://krugman.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/11/30/protectionism-andthe-
great-depression/), Paul Krugman, New York Times, November
30, 2009
50. ^ a b The protectionist temptation: Lessons from the Great Depression
for today (http://voxeu.org/index.php?q=node/3280), VOX, Barry
Eichengreen, Douglas Irwin, 17 March 2009
51. ^ Hansen, Alvin (1939). Economic Progress and Declining
Population Growth. ISBN 978-1162557823<Originally printed in a
journal. Reprinted 2004, 2010>
52. ^ a b Barber, Clarence L. "On the Origins of the Great Depression",
Southern Economic Journal, January, 1978, 44(3), pp. 432-456.
53. ^ Barber, Clarence L. "On the Origins of the Great Depression",
Southern Economic Journal, January 1978, 44(3), pp. 432-456. See
also Bolch, B. W. and J. D. Pilgrim, "A Reappraisal of Some Factors
Associated with Fluctuations in the United States in the Interwar
Period." Southern Economic Journal, January 1973, pp. 327-44.
54. ^ Longman, Philip (2004). The Empty Cradle: How Falling
Birthrates Threaten World Prosperity And What to Do About It.
p. 87. ISBN 0-465-05050-6.
55. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 1
56. ^ White, Lawrence (2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the
Great Depression?”. Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751
–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x
(http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
57. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 1
58. ^ Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar
publishing, 2003, ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 9
59. ^ Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar
publishing, 2003, ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 9
60. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 1
61. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 33
62. ^ White, Lawrence (2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the
Great Depression?”. Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751
–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x
(http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
63. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 1
64. ^ White, Lawrence (2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the
Great Depression?”. Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751
–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x
(http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
65. ^ Lawrence White, The Clash of Economic Ideas: The Great Policy
Debates and Experiments of the 20th Century (Cambridge University
Press), p. 94.
66. ^ White, Clash of Economic Ideas, p. 94. See alsoWhite, Lawrence
(2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?”.
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751–768.
doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x (http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%
2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
67. ^ F. A. Hayek, interviewed by Diego Pizano July, 1979 published in:
Diego Pizano, Conversations with Great Economists: Friedrich A.
Hayek, John Hicks, Nicholas Kaldor, Leonid V. Kantorovich, Joan
Robinson, Paul A.Samuelson, Jan Tinbergen (Jorge Pinto Books,
2009).
68. ^ Herbert Hoover, Father of the New Deal, by Steven Horwitz
http://www.cato.org/pubs/bp/bp122.pdf
69. ^ Does ‘Austerity’ Work? by David Weinberger
http://blog.heritage.org/2011/10/27/does-austerity-work/
70. ^ Lessons from Economic Recessions II- The Forgotten Recession of
1920 http://conservativehideout.com/wordpress/2011/07/05/lessonsfrom-
economic-recessions-ii-the-forgotten-recession-of-1920/
71. ^ The Growth of the Federal Government in the 1920s, Randall G.
Holcombe http://www.cato.org/pubs/journal/cj16n2-2.html
72. ^ Hoover's Attack on Laissez-Faire, by Murray Rothbard
http://mises.org/daily/2902#2
73. ^ The Concise Encyclopedia of Economics: The Great Depression
http://www.econlib.org/library/Enc/GreatDepression.html
74. ^ http://www.cato.org/pubs/bp/bp122.pdf
参考文献
◾ Secular Stagnation and Great Depression, R. L. Norman, Jr. (http://www.secularstagnation.com)
◾ Dorfman, Joseph (1959). Economic Mind in American Civilizationvol 4 and 5 cover the ideas of all American economists of 1918-
1933.
◾ Friedman, Milton and Anna Jacobson Schwartz, A Monetary History of the United States, 1867-1960 (1963)
◾ Keen, Steve 2001. Debunking Economics Pluto Press Australia Limited Sydney, Australia
◾ Meltzer, Allan H. 2003 A History of the Federal Reserve Volume I: 1913-1951 Chicago University Press, Chicago, IL
◾ Rothbard, Murray N. 1963 America's Great Depression D. Van Nostrand Company, Princeton, NJ
◾ Rothbard, Murray N. A History of Money and Banking in the United States: The Colonial Era to World War II (2002)
◾ Samuelson, Paul (1948). Economics.
◾ White, Eugene N. "The Stock Market Boom and Crash of 1929 Revisited" Journal of Economic Perspectives, Vol. 4, No. 2 (Spring,
1990), pp. 67–83; examines different theories
関連文献
世界
◾ Ambrosius, G. and W. Hibbard. A Social and Economic History of Twentieth-Century Europe (1989)
◾ Bordo, Michael, and Anna J. Schwartz, eds. A Retrospective on the Classical Gold Standard, 1821–1931 (1984) (National Bureau of
Economic Research Conference Report)
◾ Bordo, Michael et al. eds. The Gold Standard and Related Regimes: Collected Essays (1999)
◾ Brown, Ian. The Economies of Africa and Asia in the Inter-War Depression (1989)
◾ Davis, Joseph S. The World Between the Wars, 1919-39: An Economist's View (1974)
◾ Eichengreen, Barry. Golden Fetters: The Gold Standard and the Great Depression, 1919–1939 (NBER Series on Long-Term Factors
in Economic Development), 1996, ISBN 0-19-510113-8
◾ Eichengreen, Barry, and Marc Flandreau, eds. The Gold Standard in Theory and History (1997)
◾ Feinstein, Charles H. The European Economy Between the Wars (1997)
◾ Garraty, John A. The Great Depression: An Inquiry into the Causes, Course, and Consequences of the Worldwide Depression of the
Nineteen-Thirties, as Seen by Contemporaries and in Light of History (1986)
◾ Garraty, John A. Unemployment in History (1978)
◾ Garside, William R. Capitalism in Crisis: International Responses to the Great Depression (1993)
◾ Haberler, Gottfried. The World Economy, Money, and the Great Depression 1919-1939 (1976)
◾ Hall, Thomas E. and J. David Ferguson. The Great Depression: An International Disaster of Perverse Economic Policies (1998)
◾ Kaiser, David E. Economic Diplomacy and the Origins of the Second World War: Germany, Britain, France and Eastern Europe,
1930-1939 (1980)
◾ Kindleberger, Charles P. The World in Depression, 1929-1939 (1983);
◾ Tipton, F. and R. Aldrich. An Economic and Social History of Europe, 1890–1939 (1987)
◾ Barber, Clarence Lyle (University of Manitoba) "On the Origins of the Great Depression" (1978)
アメリカ合衆国
◾ Ben S. Bernanke. Essays on the Great Depression (2000)
◾ Bernstein, Michael A. The Great Depression: Delayed Recovery and Economic Change in America, 1929-1939 (1989) focus on lowgrowth
and high-growth industries
◾ Bordo, Michael D., Claudia Goldin, and Eugene N. White, eds. The Defining Moment: The Great Depression and the American
Economy in the Twentieth Century (1998). Advanced economic history.
◾ Chandler, Lester. America's Greatest Depression (1970). economic history overview.
◾ De Long, Bradford. Liquidation Cycles and the Great Depression (1991)
◾ Jensen, Richard J. "The Causes and Cures of Unemployment in the Great Depression," Journal of Interdisciplinary History 19 (1989)
553-83. online at JSTOR in most academic libraries
◾ McElvaine, Robert S. The Great Depression (2nd ed 1993) social history
◾ Mitchell, Broadus. Depression Decade: From New Era through New Deal, 1929-1941 (1964), standard economic history overview.
◾ Parker, Randall E. Reflections on the Great Depression (2002) interviews with 11 leading economists
◾ Salsman, Richard M. “The Cause and Consequences of the Great Depression” in The Intellectual Activist, ISSN 0730-2355. Mr.
Salsman argues that the Great Depression was fundamentally caused by statist government policy.
◾ Singleton, Jeff. The American Dole: Unemployment Relief and the Welfare State in the Great Depression (2000)
(http://www.questia.com/PM.qst?a=o&d=24419587)
◾ Warren, Harris Gaylord. Herbert Hoover and the Great Depression (1959).
連邦準備制度の役割
◾ Chandler, Lester V. American Monetary Policy, 1928-41. (1971).
◾ Epstein, Gerald and Thomas Ferguson. "Monetary Policy, Loan Liquidation and Industrial Conflict: Federal Reserve System Open
Market Operations in 1932." Journal of Economic History 44 (December 1984): 957-84. in JSTOR
◾ Kubik, Paul J., "Federal Reserve Policy during the Great Depression: The Impact of Interwar Attitudes regarding Consumption and
Consumer Credit." Journal of Economic Issues. Vo: 30. Issue: 3. Publication Year: 1996. pp 829+.
◾ Mayhew, Anne. "Ideology and the Great Depression: Monetary History Rewritten." Journal of Economic Issues 17 (June 1983): 353-
60.
◾ Meltzer, Allan H. A History of the Federal Reserve, Volume 1: 1913-1951 (2004) the standard scholarly history
◾ Steindl, Frank G. Monetary Interpretations of the Great Depression. (1995).
◾ Temin, Peter. Did Monetary Forces Cause the Great Depression? (1976).
◾ Wicker, Elmus R. "A Reconsideration of Federal Reserve Policy during the 1920-1921 Depression," Journal of Economic History
(1966) 26: 223-238, in JSTOR
◾ Wicker, Elmus. Federal Reserve Monetary Policy, 1917-33. (1966).
◾ Wells, Donald R. The Federal Reserve System: A History (2004)
◾ Wueschner, Silvano A. Charting Twentieth-Century Monetary Policy: Herbert Hoover and Benjamin Strong, 1917-1927 Greenwood
Press. (1999)
Template:GreatDepr nav
「https://ja.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=世界恐慌の原因&oldid=60902860」から取得
カテゴリ: 翻訳中途 - 2016年2月1920年代世界恐慌経済恐慌金本位制出来事の原因
◾ 最終更新 2016年8月25日 (木) 17:12 （日時は個人設定で未設定ならばUTC）。
◾ テキストはクリエイティブ・コモンズ表示-継承ライセンスの下で利用可能です。追加の条件が適用される場合があります。
詳細は利用規約を参照してください。
USA annual real GDP from 1910 to 1960, with the years of the Great
Depression (1929–39) highlighted
Money supply decreased a lot between Black Tuedsay and the Bank
Holiday in March 1933 when there was massive bank runs across the
United States.
Causes of the Great Depression
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
The causes of the Great Depression in the early 20th century have been extensively discussed
by economists and remain a matter of active debate. They are part of the larger debate about
economic crises.
The specific economic events that took place during the Great Depression have been studied
thoroughly: a deflation in asset and commodity prices, dramatic drops in demand and credit, and
disruption of trade, ultimately resulting in widespread unemployment (over 13 million people
were unemployed by 1932) and hence poverty. However, historians lack consensus in
determining the causal relationship between various events and the government economic policy
in causing or ameliorating the Depression. The initial stock market crash triggered a "panic selloff"
that made the stock market go even lower.
Although a common belief is that the Great Depression was triggered by the 1929 crash of the
stock market, the stock market in 1929 had reached record fundamental valuations in spite of
deteriorating economic conditions such as rising unemployment, overproduction (excess
capacity), underconsumption and high debt. The timing of the crash coincided with news that the
proposed import tariff on manufactured products was losing support in Congress.[1]
Current theories may be broadly classified into two main points of view and several heterodox
points of view.
First, there are demand-driven theories, from Keynesian and institutional economists who argue
that the depression was caused by a widespread loss of confidence that led to underconsumption.
The demand-driven theories argue that the financial crisis following the 1929 crash led to a
sudden and persistent reduction in consumption and investment spending.[2] Once panic and
deflation set in, many people believed they could avoid further losses by keeping clear of the
markets. Holding money therefore became profitable as prices dropped lower and a given amount
of money bought ever more goods, exacerbating the drop in demand.
Second, there are the monetarists, who believe that the Great Depression started as an ordinary
recession, but that significant policy mistakes by monetary authorities (especially the Federal
Reserve) caused a shrinking of the money supply which greatly exacerbated the economic
situation, causing a recession to descend into the Great Depression. Related to this explanation are those who point to debt deflation causing those who borrow to owe
ever more in real terms.
There are also various heterodox theories that reject the explanations of the Keynesians and monetarists. Some new classical macroeconomists have argued that
various labor market policies imposed at the start caused the length and severity of the Great Depression. The Austrian school of economics focuses on the
macroeconomic effects of money supply and how central banking decisions can lead to malinvestment. Marxian economists view the Great Depression, with all other
economic crises, as a symptom of the classism and instability inherent in the capitalist model.
Contents
◾ 1 General theoretical reasoning
◾ 1.1 Mainstream theories
◾ 1.1.1 Keynesian
◾ 1.1.2 Monetarist
◾ 1.1.3 Additional modern nonmonetary explanations
◾ 1.1.3.1 Debt deflation
◾ 1.1.3.2 Expectations hypothesis
◾ 1.2 Heterodox theories
◾ 1.2.1 Austrian School
◾ 1.2.2 Marxian
◾ 2 Specific theories of cause
◾ 2.1 Non-debt deflation
◾ 2.2 Productivity or technology shock
◾ 2.3 Disparities in wealth and income
◾ 2.4 Gold Standard system
◾ 2.5 Financial institution structures
◾ 2.6 Protectionism
◾ 2.7 International Debt Structure
◾ 2.8 Population dynamics
◾ 3 Role of economic policy
◾ 3.1 Calvin Coolidge (1923–29)
◾ 3.2 Leave-it-alone liquidationism (1929–33)
◾ 3.2.1 Overview
◾ 3.2.2 Criticism
◾ 3.3 Herbert Hoover (1929–33)
◾ 3.3.1 Economic policy
◾ 3.3.2 Federal spending
◾ 3.3.3 Tax policy
◾ 3.4 Franklin Delano Roosevelt (1933–45)
◾ 3.4.1 Arguments for key to recovery
◾ 3.4.2 Arguments for prolongation of the Great Depression
◾ 4 See also
◾ 5 Notes
◾ 6 References
The Great Depression in a monetary
view.
◾ 7 Further reading
◾ 7.1 World
◾ 7.2 United States
◾ 7.3 Role of the United States Federal Reserve
General theoretical reasoning
The two classical competing theories of the Great Depression are the Keynesian (demand-driven) and the monetarist explanation. There are also various heterodox
theories that downplay or reject the explanations of the Keynesians and monetarists.
Economists and economic historians are almost evenly split as to whether the traditional monetary explanation that monetary forces were the primary cause of the
Great Depression is right, or the traditional Keynesian explanation that a fall in autonomous spending, particularly investment, is the primary explanation for the
onset of the Great Depression.[3] Today the controversy is of lesser importance since there is mainstream support for the debt deflation theory and the expectations
hypothesis that building on the monetary explanation of Milton Friedman and Anna Schwartz add non-monetary explanations.
There is consensus that the Federal Reserve System should have cut short the process of monetary deflation and banking collapse. If the FED had done that the
economic downturn would have been far less severe and much shorter.[4]
Mainstream theories
Keynesian
In his book The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money (1936), British economist John Maynard Keynes introduced concepts that were intended to help
explain the Great Depression. He argued that there are reasons why the self-correcting mechanisms that many economists claimed should work during a downturn
might not work.
One argument for a non-interventionist policy during a recession was that if consumption fell due to savings, the savings would cause the rate of interest to fall.
According to the classical economists, lower interest rates would lead to increased investment spending and demand would remain constant. However, Keynes argues
that there are good reasons why investment does not necessarily increase in response to a fall in the interest rate. Businesses make investments based on expectations
of profit. Therefore, if a fall in consumption appears to be long-term, businesses analyzing trends will lower expectations of future sales. Therefore, the last thing they
are interested in doing is investing in increasing future production, even if lower interest rates make capital inexpensive. In that case, the economy can be thrown into
a general slump due to a decline in consumption.[5] According to Keynes, this self-reinforcing dynamic is what occurred to an extreme degree during the Depression,
where bankruptcies were common and investment, which requires a degree of optimism, was very unlikely to occur. This view is often characterized by economists
as being in opposition to Say's Law.
The idea that reduced capital investment was a cause of the depression is a central theme in Secular stagnation theory.
Keynes argued that if the national government spent more money to recover the money spent by consumers and business firms, unemployment rates would fall. The
solution was for the Federal Reserve System to “create new money for the national government to borrow and spend” and to cut taxes rather than raising them, in
order for consumers to spend more, and other beneficial factors.[6] Hoover chose to do the opposite of what Keynes thought to be the solution and allowed the federal
government to raise taxes exceedingly to reduce the budget shortage brought upon by the depression. Keynes proclaimed that more workers could be employed by
decreasing interest rates, encouraging firms to borrow more money and make more products. Employment would prevent the government from having to spend any
more money by increasing the amount at which consumers would spend. Keynes’ theory was then confirmed by the length of the Great Depression within the United
States and the constant unemployment rate. Employment rates began to rise in preparation for World War II by increasing government spending. “In light of these
developments, the Keynesian explanation of the Great Depression was increasingly accepted by economists, historians, and politicians”.[6]
Monetarist
In their 1963 book A Monetary History of the United States, 1867–1960, Milton Friedman and Anna Schwartz laid out their
case for a different explanation of the Great Depression. Essentially, the Great Depression, in their view, was caused by the
fall of the money supply. Friedman and Schwartz write: "From the cyclical peak in August 1929 to a cyclical trough in March
1933, the stock of money fell by over a third." The result was what Friedman calls the "Great Contraction" — a period of
falling income, prices, and employment caused by the choking effects of a restricted money supply. Friedman and Schwartz
argue that people wanted to hold more money than the Federal Reserve was supplying. As a result, people hoarded money by
consuming less. This caused a contraction in employment and production since prices were not flexible enough to
immediately fall. The Fed's failure was in not realizing what was happening and not taking corrective action.[7]
After the Depression, the primary explanations of it tended to ignore the importance of the money supply. However, in the
monetarist view, the Depression was “in fact a tragic testimonial to the importance of monetary forces.”[8] In their view, the
failure of the Federal Reserve to deal with the Depression was not a sign that monetary policy was impotent, but that the
Federal Reserve implemented the wrong policies. They did not claim the Fed caused the depression, only that it failed to use
policies that might have stopped a recession from turning into a depression.
The U.S. economy during this period went through a number of cycles of boom and bust. The depressions often seemed to be set off by bank panics, the most
significant occurring in 1873, 1893, 1901, 1907, and 1920.[9] Before the 1913 establishment of the Federal Reserve, the banking system had dealt with these crises in
the U.S. (such as in the Panic of 1907) by suspending the convertibility of deposits into currency. Starting in 1893, there were growing efforts by financial institutions
and business men to intervene during these crises, providing liquidity to banks that were suffering runs. During the banking panic of 1907, an ad-hoc coalition
assembled by J. P. Morgan successfully intervened in this way, thereby cutting off the panic, which was likely the reason why the depression that would normally
have followed a banking panic did not happen this time. A call by some for a government version of this solution resulted in the establishment of the Federal Reserve.
[10]
But in 1928–32, the Federal Reserve did not act to provide liquidity to banks suffering runs. In fact, its policy contributed to the banking crisis by permitting a sudden
contraction of the money supply. During the Roaring Twenties, the central bank had set as its primary goal "price stability", in part because the governor of the New
York Federal Reserve, Benjamin Strong, was a disciple of Irving Fisher, a tremendously popular economist who popularized stable prices as a monetary goal. It had
kept the number of dollars at such an amount that prices of goods in society appeared stable. In 1928, Strong died, and with his death this policy ended, to be replaced
with a real bills doctrine requiring that all currency or securities have material goods backing them. This policy permitted the US money supply to fall by over a third
from 1929 to 1933.[11]
Crowd at New York's American Union
Bank during a bank run early in the Great
Depression.
Crowd gathering on Wall Street after the
1929 crash.
When this money shortage caused runs on banks, the Fed maintained its true bills policy, refusing to lend money to the banks in the way that had cut short the 1907
panic, instead allowing each to suffer a catastrophic run and fail entirely. This policy resulted in a series of bank failures in which one-third of all banks vanished.[12]
According to Ben Bernanke, the subsequent credit crunches led to waves of bankruptcies.[13] Friedman said that if a policy similar to 1907 had been followed during
the banking panic at the end of 1930, perhaps this would have stopped the vicious circle of the forced liquidation of assets at depressed prices. Consequently, the
banking panics of 1931, 1932, and 1933 might not have happened, just as suspension of convertibility in 1893 and 1907 had quickly ended the liquidity crises at the
time.”[14]
Monetarist explanations had been rejected in Samuelson's work Economics, writing "Today few economists regard Federal Reserve monetary policy as a panacea for
controlling the business cycle. Purely monetary factors are considered to be as much symptoms as causes, albeit symptoms with aggravating effects that should not be
completely neglected."[15] According to Keynesian economist Paul Krugman, the work of Friedman and Schwartz became dominant among mainstream economists
by the 1980s but should be reconsidered in light of Japan's Lost Decade of the 1990s.[16] The role of monetary policy in financial crises is in active debate regarding
the 2007–12 global financial crisis; see Causes of the 2007–12 global financial crisis.
Additional modern nonmonetary explanations
The monetary explanation has two weaknesses. First it is not able to explain why the demand for money was falling more rapidly than the supply during the initial
downturn in 1930-31.[17] Second it is not able to explain why in March 1933 a recovery took place although short term interest rates remained close to zero and the
Money supply was still falling. These questions are addressed by modern explanations that build on the monetary explanation of Milton Friedman and Anna
Schwartz but add non-monetary explanations.
Debt deflation
Total debt to GDP levels in the U.S. reached a high of just under 300% by the time of the Depression. This level of debt was
not exceeded again until near the end of the 20th century.[18]
Jerome (1934) gives an unattributed quote about finance conditions that allowed the great industrial expansion of the post
WW I period:
Probably never before in this country had such a volume of funds been available at such low rates for such a long
period.[19]
Furthermore, Jerome says that the volume of new capital issues increased at a 7.7% compounded annual rate from 1922
–29 at a time when the Standard Statistics Co.'s index of 60 high grade bonds yielded from 4.98% in 1923 to 4.47% in
1927.
There was also a real estate and housing bubble in the 1920s, especially in Florida, which burst in 1925. Alvin Hansen
stated that housing construction during the 1920s decade exceeded population growth by 25%.[20] See also:Florida land
boom of the 1920s
Irving Fisher argued that the predominant factor leading to the Great Depression was over-indebtedness and deflation.
Fisher tied loose credit to over-indebtedness, which fueled speculation and asset bubbles.[21] He then outlined nine factors
interacting with one another under conditions of debt and deflation to create the mechanics of boom to bust. The chain of
events proceeded as follows:
1. Debt liquidation and distress selling
2. Contraction of the money supply as bank loans are paid off
3. A fall in the level of asset prices
4. A still greater fall in the net worths of business, precipitating bankruptcies
5. A fall in profits
6. A reduction in output, in trade and in employment.
7. Pessimism and loss of confidence
8. Hoarding of money
9. A fall in nominal interest rates and a rise in deflation adjusted interest rates.[21]
During the Crash of 1929 preceding the Great Depression, margin requirements were only 10%.[22] Brokerage firms, in
other words, would lend $90 for every $10 an investor had deposited. When the market fell, brokers called in these loans,
which could not be paid back. Banks began to fail as debtors defaulted on debt and depositors attempted to withdraw
their deposits en masse, triggering multiple bank runs. Government guarantees and Federal Reserve banking regulations
to prevent such panics were ineffective or not used. Bank failures led to the loss of billions of dollars in assets.[23]
Outstanding debts became heavier, because prices and incomes fell by 20–50% but the debts remained at the same dollar
amount. After the panic of 1929, and during the first 10 months of 1930, 744 US banks failed. (In all, 9,000 banks failed
during the 1930s). By April 1933, around $7 billion in deposits had been frozen in failed banks or those left unlicensed
after the March Bank Holiday.[24]
Bank failures snowballed as desperate bankers called in loans, which the borrowers did not have time or money to repay.
With future profits looking poor, capital investment and construction slowed or completely ceased. In the face of bad
loans and worsening future prospects, the surviving banks became even more conservative in their lending.[23] Banks
built up their capital reserves and made fewer loans, which intensified deflationary pressures. A vicious cycle developed
and the downward spiral accelerated.
The liquidation of debt could not keep up with the fall of prices it caused. The mass effect of the stampede to liquidate increased the value of each dollar owed,
relative to the value of declining asset holdings. The very effort of individuals to lessen their burden of debt effectively increased it. Paradoxically, the more the
debtors paid, the more they owed.[21] This self-aggravating process turned a 1930 recession into a 1933 great depression.
Fisher's debt-deflation theory initially lacked mainstream influence because of the counter-argument that debt-deflation represented no more than a redistribution
from one group (debtors) to another (creditors). Pure re-distributions should have no significant macroeconomic effects.
Building on both the monetary hypothesis of Milton Friedman and Anna Schwartz as well as the debt deflation hypothesis of Irving Fisher, Ben Bernanke developed
an alternative way in which the financial crisis affected output. He builds on Fisher's argument that dramatic declines in the price level and nominal incomes lead to
increasing real debt burdens which in turn leads to debtor insolvency and consequently leads to lowered aggregate demand, a further decline in the price level then
results in a debt deflationary spiral. According to Bernanke, a small decline in the price level simply reallocates wealth from debtors to creditors without doing
damage to the economy. But when the deflation is severe falling asset prices along with debtor bankruptcies lead to a decline in the nominal value of assets on bank
balance sheets. Banks will react by tightening their credit conditions, that in turn leads to a credit crunch which does serious harm to the economy. A credit crunch
lowers investment and consumption and results in declining aggregate demand which additionally contributes to the deflationary spiral.[25][26][27]
Economist Steve Keen revived the Debt-Reset Theory after he accurately predicted the 2008 recession based on his analysis of the Great Depression, and recently
advised Congress to engage in debt-forgiveness or direct payments to citizens in order to avoid future financial events.[28] Some people support the Debt-Reset
Theory.[29][30][31]
Expectations hypothesis
Expectations have been a central element of macroeconomic models since the economic mainstream accepted the new neoclassical synthesis. While not rejecting that
it was inadequate demand that sustained the depression, according to Peter Temin, Barry Wigmore, Gauti B. Eggertsson and Christina Romer the key to recovery and
the end of the Great Depression was the successful management of public expectations. This thesis is based on the observation that after years of deflation and a very
severe recession, important economic indicators turned positive in March 1933, just as Franklin D. Roosevelt took office. Consumer prices turned from deflation to a
mild inflation, industrial production bottomed out in March 1933, investment doubled in 1933 with a turnaround in March 1933. There were no monetary forces to
explain that turnaround. Money supply was still falling and short term interest rates remained close to zero. Before March 1933, people expected a further deflation
and recession so that even interest rates at zero did not stimulate investment. But when Roosevelt announced major regime changes people began to expect inflation
and an economic expansion. With those expectations, interest rates at zero began to stimulate investment as planned. Roosevelt's fiscal and monetary policy regime
change helped to make his policy objectives credible. The expectation of higher future income and higher future inflation stimulated demand and investments. The
analysis suggests that the elimination of the policy dogmas of the gold standard, a balanced budget in times of crises and small government led endogenously to a
large shift in expectation that accounts for about 70–80 percent of the recovery of output and prices from 1933 to 1937. If the regime change had not happened and
the Hoover policy had continued, the economy would have continued its free fall in 1933, and output would have been 30 percent lower in 1937 than in 1933.
[32][33][34]
The recession of 1937–38, which slowed down economic recovery from the great depression, is explained by fears of the population that the moderate tightening of
the monetary and fiscal policy in 1937 would be first steps to a restoration of the pre March 1933 policy regime.[35]
Heterodox theories
Austrian School
Austrian economists argue that the Great Depression was the inevitable outcome of the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve during the 1920s. In their opinion,
the central bank's policy was an "easy credit policy" which led to an unsustainable credit-driven boom. In the Austrian view, the inflation of the money supply during
this period led to an unsustainable boom in both asset prices (stocks and bonds) and capital goods. By the time the Federal Reserve belatedly tightened monetary
policy in 1928, it was too late to avoid a significant economic contraction.[36] Austrians argue that government intervention after the crash of 1929 delayed the
market’s adjustment and made the road to complete recovery more difficult.[37][38]
Acceptance of the Austrian explanation of what primarily caused the Great Depression is compatible with either acceptance or denial of the Monetarist explanation.
Austrian economist Murray Rothbard, who wrote America's Great Depression (1963), rejected the Monetarist explanation. He criticized Milton Friedman's assertion
that the central bank failed to sufficiently increase the supply of money, claiming instead that the Federal Reserve did pursue an inflationary policy when, in 1932, it
purchased $1.1 billion of government securities, which raised its total holding to $1.8 billion. Rothbard says that despite the central bank's policies, "total bank
reserves only rose by $212 million, while the total money supply fell by $3 billion". The reason for this, he argues, is that the American populace lost faith in the
banking system and began hoarding more cash, a factor very much beyond the control of the Central Bank. The potential for a run on the banks caused local bankers
to be more conservative in lending out their reserves, which, according to Rothbard's argument, was the cause of the Federal Reserve's inability to inflate.[39]
Friedrich Hayek had criticised the FED and the Bank of England in the 1930s for not taking a more contractionary stance.[40] However, in 1975, Hayek admitted that
he made a mistake in the 1930s in not opposing the Central Bank's deflationary policy and stated the reason why he had been ambivalent: "At that time I believed that
a process of deflation of some short duration might break the rigidity of wages which I thought was incompatible with a functioning economy.[41] In 1978, he made it
clear that he agreed with the point of view of the Monetarists, saying, "I agree with Milton Friedman that once the Crash had occurred, the Federal Reserve System
pursued a silly deflationary policy", and that he was as opposed to deflation as he was to inflation.[42] Concordantly, economist Lawrence White argues that the
business cycle theory of Hayek is inconsistent with a monetary policy which permits a severe contraction of the money supply.
Hans Sennholz argued that most boom and busts that plagued the American economy in 1819-20, 1839–43, 1857–60, 1873–78, 1893–97, and 1920–21, were
generated by government creating a boom through easy money and credit, which was soon followed by the inevitable bust. The spectacular crash of 1929 followed
five years of reckless credit expansion by the Federal Reserve System under the Coolidge Administration. The passing of the Sixteenth Amendment, the passage of
The Federal Reserve Act, rising government deficits, the passage of the Hawley-Smoot Tariff Act, and the Revenue Act of 1932, exacerbated the crisis, prolonging it.
[43]
Marxian
Marxists generally argue that the Great Depression was the result of the inherent instability of the capitalist model.[44]
Specific theories of cause
Non-debt deflation
In addition to the debt deflation there was a component of productivity deflation that had been occurring since The Great Deflation of the last quarter of the 19th
century.[45] There may have also been a continuation of the correction to the sharp inflation caused by WW I.
Oil prices reached their all-time low in the early 1930s as production began from the East Texas Oil Field, the largest field ever found in the lower 48 states. With the
oil market oversupplied prices locally fell to below ten cents per barrel.[46]
Productivity or technology shock
In the first three decades of the 20th century productivity and economic output surged due in part to electrification, mass production and the increasing motorization
of transportation and farm machinery. Electrification and mass production techniques such as Fordism permanently lowered the demand for labor relative to
economic output.[1][47] By the late 1920s the resultant rapid growth in productivity and investment in manufacturing meant there was a considerable excess production
capacity.[48]
Sometime after the peak of the business cycle in 1923, more workers were displaced by productivity improvements than growth in the employment market could
meet, causing unemployment to slowly rise after 1925.[49] [1] Also, the work week fell slightly in the decade prior to the depression.[50][51][52] Wages did not keep up
with productivity growth, which led to the problem of underconsumption.[1]
Henry Ford and Edward A. Filene were among prominent businessmen who were concerned with overproduction and underconsumption. Ford doubled wages of his
workers in 1914. The over-production problem was also discussed in Congress, with Senator Reed Smoot proposing an import tariff, which became the Smoot
–Hawley Tariff Act. The Smoot–Hawley Tariff was enacted in June, 1930. The tariff was misguided because the U.S. had been running a trade account surplus
during the 1920s.[1]
Another effect of rapid technological change was that after 1910 the rate of capital investment slowed, primarily due to reduced investment in business structures.[47]
The depression led to additional large numbers of plant closings.[19]
It cannot be emphasized too strongly that the [productivity, output and employment] trends we are describing are long-time trends and were thoroughly
evident prior to 1929. These trends are in nowise the result of the present depression, nor are they the result of the World War. On the contrary, the
present depression is a collapse resulting from these long-term trends. — M. King Hubbert[53]
In the book Mechanization in Industry, whose publication was sponsored by the National Bureau of Economic Research, Jerome (1934) noted that whether
mechanization tends to increase output or displace labor depends on the elasticity of demand for the product.[19] In addition, reduced costs of production were not
always passed on to consumers. It was further noted that agriculture was adversely affected by the reduced need for animal feed as horses and mules were displaced
by inanimate sources of power following WW I. As a related point, Jerome also notes that the term "technological unemployment" was being used to describe the
labor situation during the depression.[19]
Some portion of the increased unemployment which characterized the post-War years in the United States may be attributed to the mechanization of
industries producing commodities of inelastic demand. — Fredrick C. Wells, 1934[19]
The dramatic rise in productivity of major industries in the U. S. and the effects of productivity on output, wages and the work week are discussed by a Brookings
Institution sponsored book.[45]
Corporations decided to lay off workers and reduced the amount of raw materials they purchased to manufacture their products. This decision was made to cut the
production of goods because of the amount of products that were not being sold.[6]
Joseph Stiglitz and Bruce Greenwald suggested that it was a productivity-shock in agriculture, through fertilizers, mechanization and improved seed, that caused the
drop in agricultural product prices. Farmers were forced off the land, further adding to the excess labor supply.[54]
The prices of agricultural products began to decline after WW I and eventually many farmers were forced out of business, causing the failure of hundreds of small
rural banks. Agricultural productivity resulting from tractors, fertilizers and hybrid corn was only part of the problem; the other problem was the change over from
horses and mules to internal combustion transportation. The horse and mule population began declining after WW 1, freeing up enormous quantities of land
previously used for animal feed.[19][55][56]
The rise of the internal combustion engine and increasing numbers of motorcars and buses also halted the growth of electric street railways.[57]
The years 1929 to 1941 had the highest total factor productivity growth in the history of the U. S., largely due to the productivity increases in public utilities,
transportation and trade.[58]
Disparities in wealth and income
Economists such as Waddill Catchings, William Trufant Foster, Rexford Tugwell, Adolph Berle (and later John Kenneth Galbraith), popularized a theory that had
some influence on Franklin D. Roosevelt.[59] This theory held that the economy produced more goods than consumers could purchase, because the consumers did not
have enough income.[60][61][62] According to this view, in the 1920s wages had increased at a lower rate than productivity growth, which had been high. Most of the
benefit of the increased productivity went into profits, which went into the stock market bubble rather than into consumer purchases. Thus workers did not have
enough income to absorb the large amount of capacity that had been added.[1]
According to this view, the root cause of the Great Depression was a global overinvestment while the level of wages and earnings from independent businesses fell
short of creating enough purchasing power. It was argued that government should intervene by an increased taxation of the rich to help make income more equal.
With the increased revenue the government could create public works to increase employment and ‘kick start’ the economy. In the USA the economic policies had
been quite the opposite until 1932. The Revenue Act of 1932 and public works programmes introduced in Hoover's last year as president and taken up by Roosevelt,
created some redistribution of purchasing power.[62][63]
The stock market crash made it evident that banking systems Americans were relying on were not dependable. Americans looked towards insubstantial banking units
for their own liquidity supply. As the economy began to fail, these banks were no longer able to support those who depended on their assets – they did not hold as
much power as the larger banks. During the depression, “three waves of bank failures shook the economy.”[64] The first wave came just when the economy was
heading in the direction of recovery at the end of 1930 and the beginning of 1931. The second wave of bank failures occurred “after the Federal Reserve System
raised the rediscount rate to staunch an outflow of gold”[64] around the end of 1931. The last wave, which began in the middle of 1932, was the worst and most
devastating, continuing “almost to the point of a total breakdown of the banking system in the winter of 1932–1933.”[64] The reserve banks led the United States into
an even deeper depression between 1931 and 1933, due to their failure to appreciate and put to use the powers they withheld – capable of creating money – as well as
the “inappropriate monetary policies pursued by them during these years”.[64]
Gold Standard system
New York stock market index
According to the gold standard theory of the Depression, the Depression was largely caused by the decision of most western nations after World War I to return to the
gold standard at the pre-war gold price. Monetary policy, according to this view, was thereby put into a deflationary setting that would over the next decade slowly
grind away at the health of many European economies.
This post-war policy was preceded by an inflationary policy during World War I, when many European nations abandoned the gold standard, forced by the enormous
costs of the war. This resulted in inflation because the supply of new money that was created was spent on war, not on investments in productivity to increase demand
that would have neutralized inflation. The view is that the quantity of new money introduced largely determines the inflation rate, and therefore, the cure to inflation
is to reduce the amount of new currency created for purposes that are destructive or wasteful, and do not lead to economic growth.
After the war, when America and the nations of Europe went back on the gold standard, most nations decided to return to the gold standard at the pre-war price.
When Britain, for example, passed the Gold Standard Act of 1925, thereby returning Britain to the gold standard, the critical decision was made to set the new price
of the Pound Sterling at parity with the pre-war price even though the pound was then trading on the foreign exchange market at a much lower price. At the time, this
action was criticized by John Maynard Keynes and others, who argued that in so doing, they were forcing a revaluation of wages without any tendency to
equilibrium. Keynes' criticism of Winston Churchill's form of the return to the gold standard implicitly compared it to the consequences of the Treaty of Versailles.
One of the reasons for setting the currencies at parity with the pre-war price was the prevailing opinion at that time that deflation was not a danger, while inflation,
particularly the inflation in the Weimar Republic, was an unbearable danger. Another reason was that those who had loaned in nominal amounts hoped to recover the
same value in gold that they had lent. Because of the reparations that Germany had to pay France, Germany began a credit-fueled period of growth in order to export
and sell enough goods abroad to gain gold to pay the reparations. The U.S., as the world's gold sink, loaned money to Germany to industrialize, which was then the
basis for Germany paying back France, and France paying back loans to the U.K. and the U.S. This arrangement was codified in the Dawes Plan.
In some cases, deflation can be hard on sectors of the economy such as agriculture, if they are deeply in debt at high interest rates and are unable to refinance, or that
are dependent upon loans to finance capital goods when low interest rates are not available. Deflation erodes the price of commodities while increasing the real
liability of debt. Deflation is beneficial to those with assets in cash, and to those who wish to invest or purchase assets or loan money.
More recent research, by economists such as Peter Temin, Ben Bernanke and Barry Eichengreen, has focused on the constraints policy makers were under at the time
of the Depression. In this view, the constraints of the inter-war gold standard magnified the initial economic shock and were a significant obstacle to any actions that
would ameliorate the growing Depression. According to them, the initial destabilizing shock may have originated with the Wall Street Crash of 1929 in the U.S., but
it was the gold standard system that transmitted the problem to the rest of the world.[65]
According to their conclusions, during a time of crisis, policy makers may have wanted to loosen monetary and fiscal policy, but such action would threaten the
countries’ ability to maintain their obligation to exchange gold at its contractual rate. The gold standard required countries to maintain high interest rates to attract
international investors who bought foreign assets with gold. Therefore, governments had their hands tied as the economies collapsed, unless they abandoned their
currency’s link to gold. Fixing the exchange rate of all countries on the gold standard ensured that the market for foreign exchange can only equilibrate through
interest rates. As the Depression worsened, many countries started to abandon the gold standard, and those that abandoned it earlier suffered less from deflation and
tended to recover more quickly.[66]
Richard Timberlake, economist of the free banking school and protégé of Milton Friedman, specifically addressed this stance in his paper Gold Standards and the
Real Bills Doctrine in U.S. Monetary Policy, wherein he argued that the Federal Reserve actually had plenty of lee-way under the gold standard, as had been
demonstrated by the price stability policy of New York Fed governor Benjamin Strong, between 1923 and 1928. But when Strong died in late 1928, the faction that
took over dominance of the Fed advocated a real bills doctrine, where all money had to be represented by physical goods. This policy, forcing a 30% deflation of the
dollar that inevitably damaged the US economy, is stated by Timberlake as being arbitrary and avoidable, the existing gold standard having been capable of
continuing without it:
This shift in control was decisive. In accordance with the precedent Strong had set in promoting a stable price level policy without heed to any golden fetters,
real bills proponents could proceed equally unconstrained in implementing their policy ideal. System policy in 1928–29 consequently shifted from price level
stabilization to passive real bills. “The” gold standard remained where it had been—nothing but formal window dressing waiting for an opportune time to
reappear.[67]
Financial institution structures
Economic historians (especially Friedman and Schwartz) emphasize the importance of numerous
bank failures. The failures were mostly in rural America. Structural weaknesses in the rural
economy made local banks highly vulnerable. Farmers, already deeply in debt, saw farm prices
plummet in the late 1920s and their implicit real interest rates on loans skyrocket.
Their land was already over-mortgaged (as a result of the 1919 bubble in land prices), and crop
prices were too low to allow them to pay off what they owed. Small banks, especially those tied to
the agricultural economy, were in constant crisis in the 1920s with their customers defaulting on
loans because of the sudden rise in real interest rates; there was a steady stream of failures among
these smaller banks throughout the decade.
The city banks also suffered from structural weaknesses that made them vulnerable to a shock.
Some of the nation's largest banks were failing to maintain adequate reserves and were investing
heavily in the stock market or making risky loans. Loans to Germany and Latin America by New
York City banks were especially risky. In other words, the banking system was not well prepared
to absorb the shock of a major recession.
Economists have argued that a liquidity trap might have contributed to bank failures.
Economists and historians debate how much responsibility to assign the Wall Street Crash of 1929. The timing was right; the magnitude of the shock to expectations
of future prosperity was high. Most analysts believe the market in 1928–29 was a "bubble" with prices far higher than justified by fundamentals. Economists agree
that somehow it shared some blame, but how much no one has estimated. Milton Friedman concluded, "I don't doubt for a moment that the collapse of the stock
market in 1929 played a role in the initial recession".[68]
The idea of owning government bonds initially became ideal to investors when Liberty Loan drives encouraged this possession in America during World War I. This
strive for dominion persisted into the 1920s. After World War I, the United States became the world’s creditor and was depended upon by many foreign nations.
“Governments from around the globe looked to Wall Street for loans”.[69] Investors then started to depend on these loans for further investments. Chief counsel of the
Senate Bank Committee, Ferdinand Pecora, disclosed that National City executives were also dependent on loans from a special bank fund as a safety net for their
stock losses while American banker, Albert Wiggin, “made millions selling short his own bank shares”.[69]
Economist David Hume stated that the economy became imbalanced as the recession spread on an international scale. The cost of goods remained too high for too
long during a time where there was less international trade. Policies set in selected countries to “maintain the value of their currency” resulted in an outcome of bank
failures.[70] Governments that continued to follow the gold standard were led into bank failure, meaning that it was the governments and central bankers that
contributed as a stepping stool into the depression.
The debate has three sides: one group says the crash caused the depression by drastically lowering expectations about the future and by removing large sums of
investment capital; a second group says the economy was slipping since summer 1929 and the crash ratified it; the third group says that in either scenario the crash
could not have caused more than a recession. There was a brief recovery in the market into April 1930, but prices then started falling steadily again from there, not
reaching a final bottom until July 1932. This was the largest long-term U.S. market decline by any measure. To move from a recession in 1930 to a deep depression
in 1931–32, entirely different factors had to be in play.[71]
Protectionism
Protectionism, such as the Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act, is often indicted as a cause of the Great Depression, with countries enacting protectionist policies yielding a
beggar thy neighbor result.[72][73] The Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act was especially harmful to agriculture because it caused farmers to default on their loans. This event
may have worsened or even caused the ensuing bank runs in the Midwest and West that caused the collapse of the banking system. A petition signed by over 1,000
economists was presented to the U.S. government warning that the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act would bring disastrous economic repercussions; however, this did not
stop the act from being signed into law.
Governments around the world took various steps into spending less money on foreign goods such as: “imposing tariffs, import quotas, and exchange
controls” (Eichengreen, B.). These restrictions formed a lot of tension between trade nations, causing a major deduction during the depression. Not all countries
enforced the same measures of protectionism. Some countries raised tariffs drastically and enforced severe restrictions on foreign exchange transactions, while other
countries condensed “trade and exchange restrictions only marginally”.[74]
“Countries that remained on the gold standard, keeping currencies fixed, were more likely to restrict foreign trade.” These countries became more competitive and
“resorted to protectionist policies to strengthen the balance of payments and limit gold losses.” They hoped that these restrictions and depletions would lead them
towards economic recovery. On the other hand, countries that chose to alleviate the gold standard, allowing fluidity in their currencies, experienced economic
recovery and “benefited from gold inflows”.[74]
There were three options left that could lead economies back to recovery. These options were: “wage and price deflation to restore external and internal balance at the
current gold parity; trade and payments restrictions to limit spending on imports and reduce gold outflows; or abandoning the gold standard and allowing the
exchange rate to depreciate”.[74]
Some economists argue that protectionism was not a cause but a reaction to the depression,[73] with protectionism policies being adopted by countries holding to the
gold standard rather than having floating exchange rates: countries on the gold standard could not cut interest rates or act as lender of last resort because they would
run out of gold, while countries off the gold standard could cut interest rates and print fiat money. In this interpretation, protectionism served to change the terms of
trade for countries whose monetary policy was constrained by the gold standard.
International Debt Structure
When the war came to an end in 1918, all European nations that had been allied with the U.S. owed large sums of money to American banks, sums much too large to
be repaid out of their shattered treasuries. This is one reason why the Allies had insisted (to the consternation of Woodrow Wilson) on demanding reparation
payments from Germany and Austria–Hungary. Reparations, they believed, would provide them with a way to pay off their own debts. However, Germany and
Austria-Hungary were themselves in deep economic trouble after the war; they were no more able to pay the reparations than the Allies were able to pay their debts.
The debtor nations put strong pressure on the U.S. in the 1920s to forgive the debts, or at least reduce them. The American government refused. Instead, U.S. banks
began making large loans to the nations of Europe. Thus, debts (and reparations) were being paid only by augmenting old debts and piling up new ones. In the late
1920s, and particularly after the American economy began to weaken after 1929, the European nations found it much more difficult to borrow money from the U.S.
At the same time, high U.S. tariffs were making it much more difficult for them to sell their goods in U.S. markets. Without any source of revenue from foreign
exchange to repay their loans, they began to default.
Beginning late in the 1920s, European demand for U.S. goods began to decline. That was partly because European industry and agriculture were becoming more
productive, and partly because some European nations (most notably Weimar Germany) were suffering serious financial crises and could not afford to buy goods
overseas. However, the central issue causing the destabilization of the European economy in the late 1920s was the international debt structure that had emerged in
the aftermath of World War I.
The high tariff walls such as the Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act critically impeded the payment of war debts. As a result of high U.S. tariffs, only a sort of cycle kept the
reparations and war-debt payments going. During the 1920s, the former allies paid the war-debt installments to the U.S. chiefly with funds obtained from German
reparations payments, and Germany was able to make those payments only because of large private loans from the U.S. and Britain. Similarly, U.S. investments
abroad provided the dollars, which alone made it possible for foreign nations to buy U.S. exports.
The Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act was instituted by Senator Reed Smoot and Representative Willis C. Hawley, and signed into law by President Hoover, to raise taxes on
American imports by about 20 percent during June 1930. This tax, which aided towards the exceedingly damaged American income and overproduction, was only
beneficial towards the Americans in having to spend less on foreign goods. In contrast, European trading nations frowned upon this tax increase, particularly since
the “United States was an international creditor and exports to the U.S. market were already declining”.[74] In response to the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act, some of
America’s primary producers and largest trading partner, Canada, chose to seek retribution by increasing the financial value of imported goods favoured by the
Americans.
In the scramble for liquidity that followed the 1929 stock market crash, funds flowed back from Europe to America, and Europe's fragile economies crumbled.
By 1931, the world was reeling from the worst depression of recent memory, and the entire structure of reparations and war debts collapsed.
Population dynamics
In 1939, prominent economist Alvin Hansen discussed the decline in population growth in relation to the Depression.[75] The same idea was discussed in a 1978
journal article by Clarence Barber, an economist at the University of Manitoba. Using "a form of the Harrod model" to analyze the Depression, Barber states:
In such a model, one would look for the origins of a serious depression in conditions which produced a decline in Harrod's natural rate of growth, more
specifically, in a decline in the rate of population and labour force growth and in the rate of growth of productivity or technical progress, to a level below
the warranted rate of growth.[76]
The Great Depression in an international context.
Barber says, while there is "no clear evidence" of a decline in "the rate of growth of productivity" during the 1920s, there is "clear evidence" the population growth
rate began to decline during that same period. He argues the decline in population growth rate may have caused a decline in "the natural rate of growth" which was
significant enough to cause a serious depression.[76]
Barber says a decline in the population growth rate is likely to affect the demand for housing, and claims this is apparently what happened during the 1920s. He
concludes:
the rapid and very large decline in the rate of growth of non-farm households was clearly the major reason for the decline that occurred in residential
construction in the United States from 1926 on. And this decline, as Bolch and Pilgrim have claimed, may well have been the most important single
factor in turning the 1929 downturn into a major depression.[77]
The decline in housing construction that can be attributed to demographics has been estimated to range from 28% in 1933 to 38% in 1940.[78]
Among the causes of the decline in the population growth rate during the 1920s were a declining birth rate after 1910[79] and reduced immigration. The decline in
immigration was largely the result of legislation in the 1920s placing greater restrictions on immigration. In 1921, Congress passed the Emergency Quota Act,
followed by the Immigration Act of 1924.
Factors that majorly contributed to the failing of the economy since 1925, was a decrease in both residential and non-residential buildings being constructed. It was
the debt as a result of the war, less families being formed, and an imbalance of mortgage payments and loans in 1928–29 that mainly contributed to the decline in the
amount of houses being built. This caused the populate growth rate to decelerate. Though non-residential units continued to be built “at a high rate throughout the
decade”, the demands for such units were actually very low[64]
Role of economic policy
Calvin Coolidge (1923–29)
There is an ongoing debate between historians as to what extent President Calvin Coolidge's laissez-faire hands-off attitude has contributed to the Great Depression.
Despite a growing rate of bank failures he did not heed voices that predicted the lack of banking regulation as potentially dangerous. He did not listen to members of
Congress warning that stock speculation had gone too far and he ignored criticisms that workers did not participate sufficiently in the prosperity of the Roaring
Twenties.[80]
Leave-it-alone liquidationism (1929–33)
Overview
From the point of view of today's mainstream schools of economic thought, government
should strive to keep some broad nominal aggregate on a stable growth path (for
proponents of new classical macroeconomics and monetarism, the measure is the nominal
money supply; for Keynesian economists it is the nominal aggregate demand itself).
During a depression the central bank should pour liquidity into the banking system and the
government should cut taxes and accelerate spending in order to keep the nominal money
stock and total nominal demand from collapsing.[81]
The United States government and the Federal Reserve did not do that during the 1929-32
slide into the Great Depression[81] The existence of "liquidationism" played a key part in
motivating public policy decisions not to fight the gathering Great Depression. An
increasingly common view among economic historians is that the adherence of some
Federal Reserve policymakers to the liquidationist thesis led to disastrous consequences.
[82] Regarding the policies of President Hoover, economists Barry Eichengreen and J.
Bradford DeLong point out that the Hoover administration’s fiscal policy was guided by
liquidationist economists and policy makers, as Hoover tried to keep the federal budget
balanced until 1932, when Hoover lost confidence in his Secretary of the Treasury
Andrew Mellon and replaced him.[83][84][85] Hoover wrote in his memoirs he did not side
with the liquidationists, but took the side of those in his cabinet with "economic responsibility", his Secretary of Commerce Robert P. Lamont and Secretary of
Agriculture Arthur M. Hyde, who advised the President to "use the powers of government to cushion the situation".[86] But at the same time he kept Andrew Mellon
as Secretary of the Treasury until February 1932. It was during 1932 that Hoover began to support more aggressive measures to combat the Depression.[87] In his
memoirs, President Hoover wrote bitterly about members of his Cabinet who had advised inaction during the downslide into the Great Depression:
The leave-it-alone liquidationists headed by Secretary of the Treasury Mellon ... felt that government must keep its hands off and let the slump liquidate
itself. Mr. Mellon had only one formula: "Liquidate labor, liquidate stocks, liquidate the farmers, liquidate real estate ... It will purge the rottenness out of
the system. High costs of living and high living will come down. People will work harder, live a more moral life. Values will be adjusted, and
enterprising people will pick up the wrecks from less competent people."[81]
Before the Keynesian Revolution, such a liquidationist theory was a common position for economists to take and was held and advanced by economists like Friedrich
Hayek, Lionel Robbins Joseph Schumpeter, Seymour Harris and others.[85] According to the liquidationists a depression is good medicine. The function of a
depression is to liquidate failed investments and businesses that have been made obsolete by technological development in order to release factors of production
(capital and labor) from unproductive uses. These can then be redeployed in other sectors of the technologically dynamic economy. They pointed to the short duration
of the Depression of 1920–21 was due to the policy of letting the liquidation occur and argued that the crisis had laid the groundwork for the prosperity of the later
1920s. They pushed for deflationary policies (which were already executed in 1921) which – in their opinion – would assist the release of capital and labor from
unproductive activities to lay the groundwork for a new economic boom. The liquidationists argued that even if self-adjustment of the economy took mass
bankruptcies, then so be it.[85] Postponing the liquidation process would only magnify the social costs. Schumpeter wrote that it[81]
... leads us to believe that recovery is sound only if it does come of itself. For any revival which is merely due to artificial stimulus leaves part of the
work of depressions undone and adds, to an undigested remnant of maladjustment, new maladjustment of its own which has to be liquidated in turn, thus
threatening business with another (worse) crisis ahead.
Unemployment rate in the US 1910–60, with the years of the
Great Depression (1929–39) highlighted; accurate data
begins in 1939.
Federal spending in millions of dollars (1910–60). The time
period of the Hoover administration, the New Deal and
World War II are highlighted.
Despite liquidationist expectations, a large proportion of the capital stock was not redeployed and vanished during the first years of the Great Depression. According
to a study by Olivier Blanchard and Lawrence Summers, the recession caused a drop of net capital accumulation to pre-1924 levels by 1933.[88]
Criticism
Economists such as John Maynard Keynes and Milton Friedman suggested that the do-nothing policy prescription which resulted from the liquidationist theory
contributed to deepening the Great Depression.[83] With the rhetoric of ridicule Keynes tried to discredit the liquidationist view in presenting Hayek, Robbins and
Schumpeter as
...austere and puritanical souls [who] regard [the Great Depression] ... as an inevitable and a desirable nemesis on so much "overexpansion" as they call
it ... It would, they feel, be a victory for the mammon of unrighteousness if so much prosperity was not subsequently balanced by universal bankruptcy.
We need, they say, what they politely call a 'prolonged liquidation' to put us right. The liquidation, they tell us, is not yet complete. But in time it will be.
And when sufficient time has elapsed for the completion of the liquidation, all will be well with us again...
Milton Friedman stated that at the University of Chicago such “dangerous nonsense” was never taught and that he understood why at Harvard —where such nonsense
was taught— bright young economists rejected their teachers' macroeconomics, and become Keynesians.[81] He wrote:
I think the Austrian business-cycle theory has done the world a great deal of harm. If you go back to the 1930s, which is a key point, here you had the
Austrians sitting in London, Hayek and Lionel Robbins, and saying you just have to let the bottom drop out of the world. You’ve just got to let it cure
itself. You can’t do anything about it. You will only make it worse.… I think by encouraging that kind of do-nothing policy both in Britain and in the
United States, they did harm.[83]
Economist Lawrence White, while acknowledging that Hayek and Robbins did not actively oppose the deflationary policy of the early 1930s, nevertheless challenges
the argument of Milton Friedman, J. Bradford DeLong et al. that Hayek was a proponent of liquidationism. White argues that the business cycle theory of Hayek and
Robbins (which later developed into Austrian business cycle theory in its present-day form) was actually not consistent with a monetary policy which permitted a
severe contraction of the money supply. Nevertheless, White says that at the time of the Great Depression Hayek "expressed ambivalence about the shrinking
nomimal income and sharp deflation in 1929–32".[89] In a talk in 1975, Hayek admitted the mistake he made over forty years earlier in not opposing the Central
Bank's deflationary policy and stated the reason why he had been "ambivalent": "At that time I believed that a process of deflation of some short duration might break
the rigidity of wages which I thought was incompatible with a functioning economy."[41] 1979 Hayek strongly criticized the Fed's contractionary monetary policy
early in the Depression and its failure to offer banks liquidity:
I agree with Milton Friedman that once the Crash had occurred, the Federal Reserve System pursued a silly deflationary policy. I am not only against
inflation but I am also against deflation. So, once again, a badly programmed monetary policy prolonged the depression.[42]
Herbert Hoover (1929–33)
Economic policy
Historians gave Hoover credit for working tirelessly to combat the depression and noted that he left
government prematurely aged. But his policies are rated as simply not far-reaching enough to address the
Great Depression. He was prepared to do something, but nowhere near enough.[90] Hoover was no
exponent of laissez-faire. But his principal philosophies were voluntarism, self-help, and rugged
individualism. He refused direct federal intervention. He believed that government should do more than
his immediate predecessors (Warren G. Harding, Calvin Coolidge) believed. But he was not willing to go
as far as Franklin D. Roosevelt later did. Therefore, he is described as the "first of the new presidents" and
"the last of the old".[91]
Hoovers first measures were based on voluntarism by businesses not to reduce their workforce or cut
wages. But businesses had little choice and wages were reduced, workers were laid off, and investments
postponed. Hoover urged bankers to set up the National Credit Corporation so that big banks could help
failing banks survive. But bankers were reluctant to invest in failing banks, and the National Credit
Corporation did almost nothing to address the problem.[92] In 1932 Hoover reluctantly established the
Reconstruction Finance Corporation, a Federal agency with the authority to lend up to $2 billion to rescue
banks and restore confidence in financial institutions. But $2 billion was not enough to save all the banks, and bank runs and bank failures continued.[93]
Federal spending
J. Bradford DeLong explained that Hoover would have been a budget cutter in normal times and
continuously wanted to balance the budget. Hoover held the line against powerful political forces that
sought to increase government spending after the Depression began for fully two and a half years. During
the first two years of the Depression (1929 and 1930) Hoover actually achieved budget surpluses of about
0.8% of gross domestic product (GDP). In 1931, when the recession significantly worsened and GDP
declined by 15%, the federal budget had only a small deficit of 0.6% of GDP. It was not until 1932 (when
GDP declined by 27% compared to 1929-level) that Hoover pushed for measures (Reconstruction
Finance Corporation, Federal Home Loan Bank Act, direct loans to fund state Depression relief
programs) that increased spending. But at the same time he pushed for the Revenue Act of 1932 that
massively increased taxes in order to balance the budget again.[87]
Uncertainty was a major factor, argued by several economists, that contributed to the worsening and
length of the depression. It was also said to be responsible “for the initial decline in consumption that
marks the” beginning of the Great Depression by economists Paul R. Flacco and Randall E. Parker.
Economist Ludwig Lachmann argues that it was pessimism that prevented the recovery and worsening of
the depression[94] President Hoover is said to have been blinded from what was right in front of him.
USA GDP annual pattern and long-term trend, 1920–40, in
billions of constant dollars.
Economist James Deusenberry argues economic imbalance was not only a result of World War I, but also of the structural changes made during the first quarter of
the Twentieth Century. He also states the branches of the nation’s economy became smaller, there was not much demand for housing, and the stock market crash
“had a more direct impact on consumption than any previous financial panic”[95]
Economist William A. Lewis describes the conflict between America and its primary producers:
Misfortunes (of the 1930’s) were due principally to the fact that the production of primary commodities after the war was somewhat in excess of
demand. It was this which, by keeping the terms of trade unfavourable to primary producers, kept the trade in manufactures so low, to the detriment of
some countries as the United Kingdom, even in the twenties, and it was this which pulled the world economy down in the early thirties….If primary
commodity markets had not been so insecure the crisis of 1929 would not have become a great depression....It was the violent fall of prices that was
deflationary.[96]
The stock market crash was not the first sign of the Great Depression. “Long before the crash, community banks were failing at the rate of one per day”.[69] It was the
development of the Federal Reserve System that misled investors in the ‘20s into relying on federal banks as a safety net. They were encouraged to continue buying
stocks and to overlook any of the fluctuations. Economist Roger Babson tried to warn the investors of the deficiency to come, but was ridiculed even as the economy
began to deteriorate during the summer of 1929. While England and Germany struggled under the strain on gold currencies after the war, economists were blinded by
an unsustainable ‘new economy' they sought to be considerably stable and successful.[69]
Since the United States decided to no longer comply with the gold standard, “the value of the dollar could change freely from day to day”.[70] Although this
imbalance on an international scale led to crisis, the economy within the nation remained stable.
The depression then affected all nations on an international scale. “The German mark collapsed when the chancellor put domestic politics ahead of sensible finance;
the bank of England abandoned the gold standard after a subsequent speculative attack; and the U.S. Federal Reserve raised its discount rate dramatically in October
1931 to preserve the value of the dollar”.[70] The Federal Reserve drove the American economy into an even deeper depression.
Tax policy
In 1929 the Hoover administration responded to the economic crises by temporarily lowering income tax rates and the corporate tax rate.[97] At the beginning of 1931,
tax returns showed a tremendous decline in income due to the economic downturn. Income tax receipts were 40% less than in 1930. At the same time government
spending proved to be a lot greater than estimated.[97] As a result, the budget deficit increased tremendously. While Secretary of the Treasury Andrew Mellon urged
to increase taxes, Hoover had no desire to do so since 1932 was an election year.[98] In December 1931, hopes that the economic downturn would come to an end
vanished since all economic indicators pointed to a continuing downward trend.[99] On January 7, 1932, Andrew Mellon announced that the Hoover administration
would end a further increase in public debt by raising taxes.[100] On June 6, 1932, the Revenue Act of 1932 was signed into law. It raised taxes on all brackets, tripling
the tax rate on the poorest, and on the wealthy he increased taxes from 25% to 63%.[101][102] The higher taxes were first to be paid for the fiscal year 1933 when
coincidently the long recession ended.
Franklin Delano Roosevelt (1933–45)
The New Deal was Roosevelt´s response to the Great Depression. The reception is mixed. While some
historians and economists argue that the New Deal was the key to recovery others argue that it prolonged
the Great Depression.
In a survey of economic historians conducted by Robert Whaples, Professor of Economics at Wake Forest
University, anonymous questionnaires were sent to members of the Economic History Association.
Members were asked to either disagree, agree, or agree with provisos with the statement that read:
"Taken as a whole, government policies of the New Deal served to lengthen and deepen the Great
Depression." While only 6% of economic historians who worked in the history department of their
universities agreed with the statement, 27% of those that work in the economics department agreed.
Almost an identical percent of the two groups (21% and 22%) agreed with the statement "with
provisos" (a conditional stipulation), while 74% of those who worked in the history department, and 51%
in the economic department disagreed with the statement outright.[103]
Arguments for key to recovery
According to Peter Temin, Barry Wigmore, Gauti B. Eggertsson and Christina Romer the biggest primary
impact of the New Deal on the economy and the key to recovery and to end the Great Depression was brought about by a successful management of public
expectations. Before the first New Deal measures people expected a contractionary economic situation (recession, deflation) to persist. Roosevelt's fiscal and
monetary policy regime change helped to make his policy objectives credible. Expectations changed towards an expansionary development (economic growth,
inflation). The expectation of higher future income and higher future inflation stimulated demand and investments. The analysis suggests that the elimination of the
policy dogmas of the gold standard, balanced budget and small government led endogenously to a large shift in expectation that accounts for about 70–80 percent of
the recovery of output and prices from 1933 to 1937. If the regime change would not have happened and the Hoover policy would have continued, the economy
would have continued its free fall in 1933, and output would have been 30 percent lower in 1937 than in 1933.[32][33]
Arguments for prolongation of the Great Depression
In the new classical macroeconomics view of the Great Depression large negative shocks caused the 1929–33 downturn – including monetary shocks, productivity
shocks, and banking shocks – but those developments become positive after 1933 due to monetary and banking reform policies. According to the model Cole-
Ohanian impose, the main culprits for the prolonged depression were labor frictions and productivity/efficiency frictions (perhaps, to a lesser extent). Financial
frictions are unlikely to have caused the prolonged slump.[104][105]
In the Cole-Ohanian model there is a slower than normal recovery which they explain by New Deal policies which they evaluated as tending towards monopoly and
distribution of wealth. The key economic paper looking at these diagnostic sources in relation to the Great Depression is Cole and Ohanian’s work. Cole-Ohanian
point at two policies of New Deal: the National Industrial Recovery Act and National Labor Relations Act (NLRA), the latter strengthening NIRA’s labor provision.
According to Cole-Ohanian New Deal policies created cartelization, high wages, and high prices in at least manufacturing and some energy and mining industries.
Roosevelts policies against the severity of the Depression like the NIRA, a “code of fair competition” for each industry were aimed to reduce cutthroat competition in
a period of severe deflation, which was seen as the cause for lowered demand and employment. The NIRA suspended antitrust laws and permitted collusion in some
sectors provided that industry raised wages above clearing level and accepted collective bargaining with labor unions. The effects of cartelization can be seen as the
basic effect of monopoly. The given corporation produces too little, charges too high of a price, and under-employs labor. Likewise, an increase in the power of
unions creates a situation similar to monopoly. Wages are too high for the union members, so the corporation employs fewer people and, produces less output. Cole-
Ohanian show that 60% of the difference between the trend and realized output is due to cartelization and unions.[104] Chari, Kehoe, McGrattan also present a nice
exposition that’s in line with Cole-Ohanian. .[105]
This type of analysis has numerous counterarguments including the applicability of the equilibrium business cycle to the Great Depression.[106]
See also
◾ Political philosophy
◾ Timeline of the Great Depression
Notes
1. Beaudreau, Bernard C. (1996). Mass Production, the Stock Market Crash and the
Great Depression. New York, Lincoln, Shanghi: Authors Choice Press.
2. Field, Alexander J. (2011). A Great Leap Forward: 1930s Depression and U.S.
Economic Growth. New Haven, London: Yale University Press. p. 182. ISBN 978-
0-300-15109-1<Field cites Freeman & Schwartz (1963), Temin (1976), Bernanke
(1983), Field (1984), Romer (1990), Eighengreen (1992).>
3. Robert Whaples, Where Is There Consensus Among American Economic
Historians? The Results of a Survey on Forty Propositions., Journal of Economic
History, Vol. 55, No. 1 (March 1995), p. 150 in JSTOR.
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/2123771)
4. Robert Whaples, Where Is There Consensus Among American Economic
Historians? The Results of a Survey on Forty Propositions., Journal of Economic
History, Vol. 55, No. 1 (March 1995), p. 143 in JSTOR.
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/2123771)
5. Keen 2000, p. 198.
6. Caldwell, J., & O'Driscoll, T. G. (2007). What Caused the Great Depression?.
Social Education, 71(2), 70-74
7. Paul Krugman, "Who Was Milton Friedman?" New York Review of Books Volume
32, Number 32 · February 3, 2007 online community
(http://www.nybooks.com/articles/19857)
8. Friedman 1965, p. 4.
9. The History of Economic Downturns in the US – But Now You Know.net
(http://butnowyouknow.wordpress.com/those-who-fail-to-learn-fromhistory/
history-of-economic-downturns-in-the-us/)
10. * Bruner, Robert F.; Carr, Sean D. (2007). The Panic of 1907: Lessons Learned
from the Market's Perfect Storm. Hoboken, New Jersey: John Wiley & Sons.
ISBN 978-0-470-15263-8
11. Gold Standards and the Real Bills Doctrine in US Monetary Policy, Richard H
Timberlake, published in Econ Journal Watch, August 2005 –
http://www.econjournalwatch.org/pdf/TimberlakeIntellectualTyrannyAugust2005.pdf
12. Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar publishing, 2003,
ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 11
13. Ben Bernanke, "Non-monetary effects of the financial crisis in the propagation of
the Great Depression", (1983) American Economic Review . Am 73#3 257–76.
14. Friedman 2007, p. 15.
15. (Samuelson 1948, p. 353)
16. Samuelson, Friedman, and monetary policy
(http://krugman.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/12/14/samuelson-friedman-and-monetarypolicy/),
Paul Krugman, New York Times Blog, December 14, 2009
17. Robert Whaples, Where Is There Consensus Among American Economic
Historians? The Results of a Survey on Forty Propositions., Journal of Economic
History, Vol. 55, No. 1 (March 1995), p. 150, in JSTOR
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/2123771?seq=1#page_scan_tab_contents)
18. [1] (http://www.johnmauldin.com/images/uploads/pdf/mwo071811.pdf) Several
graphs of total debt to GDP can be found on the Internet.
19. Jerome, Harry (1934). Mechanization in Industry, National Bureau of Economic
Research.
20. Hansen, Alvin (1939). "Economic Progress and Declining Population Growth".
American Economic Review'. 29 (March).
21. Fisher, Irving (October 1933). "The Debt-Deflation Theory of Great Depressions".
Econometrica. The Econometric Society. 1 (4): 337–357. doi:10.2307/1907327.
JSTOR 1907327.
22. Fortune, Peter (Sep–Oct 2000). "Margin Requirements, Margin Loans, and Margin
Rates: Practice and Principles – analysis of history of margin credit regulations –
Statistical Data Included". New England Economic Review.
23. "Bank Failures". Living History Farm. Retrieved 2008-05-22.
24. "Friedman and Schwartz, Monetary History of the United States", 352
25. Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Edward Elgar Publishing,
2003, ISBN 9781843765509, p. 14-15
26. Bernanke, Ben S (June 1983). "Non-Monetary Effects of the Financial Crisis in the
Propagation of the Great Depression". The American Economic Review. The
American Economic Association. 73 (3): 257–276. JSTOR 1808111.
27. Mishkin, Fredric (December 1978). "The Household Balance and the Great
Depression". Journal of Economic History. 38 (4): 918–37.
doi:10.1017/S0022050700087167.
28. Keen, Steve (2012-12-06). "Briefing for Congress on the Fiscal Cliff: Lessons from
the 1930s - Steve Keen's Debtwatch". Debtdeflation.com. Retrieved 2014-12-01.
29. http://libertyloveandjusticeforall.com/2012/12/08/debt-reset-is-inevitable/
30. Friedersdorf, Conor (2012-12-05). "What If the Fiscal Cliff Is the Wrong Cliff?".
The Atlantic. Retrieved 2014-12-01.
31. "Private Debt Caused The Current Great Depression, Not Public Debt - Michael
Clark". Seeking Alpha. Retrieved 2014-12-01.
32. Gauti B. Eggertsson, Great Expectations and the End of the Depression
(http://www.aeaweb.org/articles.php?doi=10.1257/aer.98.4.1476), American
Economic Review 2008, 98:4, 1476–1516
33. The New York Times, Christina Romer, The Fiscal Stimulus, Flawed but Valuable
(http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/21/business/how-the-fiscal-stimulus-helpedand-
could-have-done-more.html?hp&_r=0), October 20, 2012
34. Peter Temin, Lessons from the Great Depression, MIT Press, 1992, ISBN
9780262261197, p. 87-101
35. Gauti B. Eggertsson, Great Expectations and the End of the Depression
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/29730131), The American Economic Review, Vol. 98,
No. 4 (Sep., 2008), S. 1476-1516, p. 1480
36. Murray Rothbard, America's Great Depression (Ludwig von Mises Institute, 2000),
pp. 159–63.
37. Rothbard, America's Great Depression, pp. 19–21"
38. Mises, Ludwig von (2006). The Causes of the Economic Crisis; and Other Essays
Before and After the Great Depression. Ludwig von Mises Institute. p. 207.
ISBN 978-1933550039.
39. Rothbard, A History of Money and Banking in the United States, pp. 293–94.
40. John Cunningham Wood, Robert D. Wood, Friedrich A. Hayek, Taylor & Francis,
2004, ISBN 9780415310574, p. 115
41. White, Clash of Economic Ideas, p. 94. See alsoWhite, Lawrence (2008). "Did
Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?". Journal of Money, Credit and
Banking. 40 (40): 751–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x.
42. F. A. Hayek, interviewed by Diego Pizano July, 1979 published in: Diego Pizano,
Conversations with Great Economists: Friedrich A. Hayek, John Hicks, Nicholas
Kaldor, Leonid V. Kantorovich, Joan Robinson, Paul A.Samuelson, Jan Tinbergen
(Jorge Pinto Books, 2009).
43. Sennholz, Hans (October 1, 1969). "The Great Depression". Foundation for
Economic Education. Retrieved October 23, 2016.
44. "Lewis Corey: The Decline of American Capitalism (1934)". Marxists.org. 2007-
09-30. Retrieved 2014-12-01.
45. Bell, Spurgeon (1940). "Productivity, Wages and National Income , The Institute of
Economics of the Brookings Institution".
46. Yergin, Daniel (1992). The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money $ Power.
47. Vatter, Harold G.; Walker, John F.; Alperovitz, Gar (2005). "The onset and
persistence of secular stagnation in the U.S. economy: 1910-1990, Journal of
Economic Issues".
48. Beaudreau (1996) cites capacity utilization at 84-86%, which would be a decent
number today; however, there were some industrial leaders who complained of
overcapacity, as did Senator Smoot.
49. Jerome, Harry (1934). Mechanization in Industry, National Bureau of Economic
Research<For the several industries studied industry expansion offset most of the
productivity gains that would otherwise have resulted in many more job losses than
actually occurred. To prevent rising unemployment the laid off workers would have
to have changed industries, but it was noted that even if workers were successful at
such a change the time typically took 18 months or more. The employment
statistics for the 1930 census reflect conditions after the start of the depression so
the actual employment situation prior to the depression is unknown.>
50. "Hours of Work in U.S. History". 2010.
51. Whaples, Robert (June 1991). "The Shortening of the American Work Week: An
Economic and Historical Analysis of Its Context, Causes, and Consequences, The
Journal of Economic History, Vol. 51, No. 2; pp. 454–57".
52. Field, Alexander (2004). "Technological Change and Economic Growth the
Interwar Years and the 1990s" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2012-03-
10.
53. Hubbert, M. King (1940). "Man Hours and Distribution , Derived from Man Hours:
A Declining Quantity, Technocracy, Series A, No. 8, August 1936".
54. Stiglitz, Joseph (2011). "The Book of Jobs". Vanity Fair. Retrieved 2011-12-23
55. Ayres, R. U.; Ayres, L. W.; Warr, B. (2002). "Exergy, Power and Work in the U. S.
Economy 1900–1998, Insead's Center For the Management of Environmental
Resources, 2002/52/EPS/CMER" (PDF)<Fig. 4 in Appendix>From one-sixth to
one-quarter of all land had been used to grow animal feed.
56. Atack, Jeremy; Passell, Peter (1994). A New Economic View of American History.
New York: W.W. Norton and Co. pp. 574–6. ISBN 0-393-96315-2.
57. General Motors and the Decline of Streetcars
(http://debunkportland.com/printables/TQOrigin.pdf)
58. Field, Alexander J. (2011). A Great Leap Forward: 1930s Depression and U.S.
Economic Growth. New Haven, London: Yale University Press. ISBN 978-0-300-
15109-1.
59. David M. Kennedy, 'Freedom From Fear, The American People in Depression and
War 1929–1945, Oxford University Press, 1999, ISBN 0-19-503834-7, pp. 122,
123
60. Dorfman,1959
61. Allgoewer, Elisabeth (May 2002). "Underconsumption theories and Keynesian
economics. Interpretations of the Great Depression" (PDF). Discussion paper no.
2002-14.
62. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p. 108
63. The Road to Plenty (1928)
64. Chapter 15: The Great Depression. (1999). Growth of the International Economy
1820–2000 (pp. 226–34). Taylor & Francis Ltd / Books.
65. Eichengreen 1992, p. xi
66. Bernanke 2002, p. 80
67. Gold Standards and the Real Bills Doctrine in U.S. Monetary Policy, RICHARD H.
TIMBERLAKE
http://www.econjournalwatch.org/pdf/TimberlakeIntellectualTyrannyAugust2005.pdf
68. Parker, p. 49.
69. Chernow, R. (2009, Oct 23). Everyman's financial meltdown. New York Times
(1923-Current File). Retrieved from
http://search.proquest.com/docview/1030683641
70. Temin, P. (2010). The Great Recession & the Great Depression. Daedalus, 139(4),
115–24.
71. White, 1990.
72. Protectionism and the Great Depression
(http://krugman.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/11/30/protectionism-and-the-greatdepression/),
Paul Krugman, New York Times, November 30, 2009
73. The protectionist temptation: Lessons from the Great Depression for today
(http://voxeu.org/index.php?q=node/3280), VOX, Barry Eichengreen, Douglas
Irwin, 17 March 2009
74. EICHENGREEN, B., & IRWIN, D. A. (2010). The Slide to Protectionism in the
Great Depression: Who Succumbed and Why?. Journal Of Economic History, 70
(4), 871–97.
75. Hansen, Alvin (1939). "Economic Progress and Declining Population Growth".
ISBN 978-1162557823<Originally printed in a journal. Reprinted 2004, 2010>
76. Barber, Clarence L. "On the Origins of the Great Depression", Southern Economic
Journal, January, 1978, 44(3), pp. 432–56.
77. Barber, Clarence L. "On the Origins of the Great Depression", Southern Economic
Journal, January 1978, 44(3), pp. 432–56. See also Bolch, B. W. and J. D. Pilgrim,
"A Reappraisal of Some Factors Associated with Fluctuations in the United States
in the Interwar Period." Southern Economic Journal, January 1973, pp. 327–44.
78. Atack, Jeremy; Passell, Peter (1994). A New Economic View of American History.
New York: W.W. Norton and Co. p. 599. ISBN 0-393-96315-2.
79. Longman, Philip (2004). The Empty Cradle: How Falling Birthrates Threaten
World Prosperity And What to Do About It. p. 87. ISBN 0-465-05050-6.
80. Melvin I. Urofsky, The American Presidents: Critical Essays, ISBN 0-8153-
2184-8, p. 391
81. J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real Business Cycle
Theory and the Great Depression (http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?
new_window=1), National Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No.
3546, p. 1
82. White, Lawrence (2008). "Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?".
Journal of Money, Credit, and Banking. 40 (40): 751–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-
4616.2008.00134.x.
83. White, Lawrence (2008). "Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?".
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking. 40 (40): 751–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-
4616.2008.00134.x.
84. J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real Business Cycle
Theory and the Great Depression (http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?
new_window=1), National Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No.
3546, p. 5
85. Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar publishing, 2003,
ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 9
86. Hoover, Herbert. The Memoirs of Herbert Hoover, p. 31
(http://www.ecommcode.com/hoover/ebooks/pdf/FULL/B1V3_Full.pdf) Archived
(https://web.archive.org/web/20081217233238/http://www.ecommcode.com/hoover/ebooks/pdf/FULL/B1V3_December 17, 2008, at the Wayback Machine.
87. Bradford DeLong, What Was Herbert Hoover's Fiscal Policy?
(http://delong.typepad.com/sdj/2011/07/what-was-herbert-hoovers-fiscalpolicy.
html)
88. J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real Business Cycle
Theory and the Great Depression (http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?
new_window=1), National Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No.
3546, p. 33
89. Lawrence White, The Clash of Economic Ideas: The Great Policy Debates and
Experiments of the 20th Century (Cambridge University Press), p. 94.
90. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 4. Auflage, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, pp. 110–11
91. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 4. Auflage, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p. 120
92. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 4. Auflage, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p. 113
93. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 4. Auflage, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p. 114
94. Houck, D. W. (2000). RHETORIC AS CURRENCY: HERBERT HOOVER AND
THE 1929 STOCK MARKET CRASH. Rhetoric & Public Affairs, 3(2), 155–81.
95. Barber, C. L. (1978). "On the Origins of the Great Depression". Southern Economic
Journal, 44(3), 432.
96. Lewis, W. A. Economic Survey, 1919–1929. London: Allen and Unwin, 1949.
97. Roy G. Blakey, Gladys C. Blakey, The Federal Income Tax, 2006, p. 301
98. Roy G. Blakey, Gladys C. Blakey, The Federal Income Tax, 2006, pp. 302–03
99. Roy G. Blakey, Gladys C. Blakey, The Federal Income Tax, 2006, p. 304
100. Roy G. Blakey, Gladys C. Blakey, The Federal Income Tax, 2006, p. 305
101. The Concise Encyclopedia of Economics: The Great Depression
http://www.econlib.org/library/Enc/GreatDepression.html
102. http://www.cato.org/pubs/bp/bp122.pdf
103. Robert Whaples, "Where Is There Consensus Among American Economic
Historians? The Results of a Survey on Forty Propositions", Journal of Economic
History, Vol. 55, No. 1 (Mar., 1995), pp. 139–54 in JSTOR
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/2123771)
104. Cole, Harold L., and Lee E. Ohanian. "The Great Depression from a Neoclassical
Perspective." N.p., n.d. Web.
<https://www.minneapolisfed.org/research/qr/qr2311.pdf>.
105. Chari, V. V., Patrick J. Kehoe, and Ellen R. McGrattan. "Accounting for the Great
Depression." N.p., n.d. Web.
<https://www.minneapolisfed.org/research/qr/qr2721.pdf>.
106. De Vroey, Michel R. "Real Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression: The
Abandonment of the Abstentionist Viewpoint." N.p., n.d. Web.
<http://www.econ.umn.edu/~tkehoe/classes/DevroeyPensieroso.pdf>.
References
◾ Secular Stagnation and Great Depression, R. L. Norman, Jr. (http://www.secularstagnation.com)
◾ Dorfman, Joseph (1959). "Economic Mind in American Civilization"vol 4 and 5 cover the ideas of all American economists of 1918-1933.
◾ Friedman, Milton and Anna Jacobson Schwartz, A Monetary History of the United States, 1867–1960 (1963)
◾ Keen, Steve 2001. Debunking Economics Pluto Press Australia Limited Sydney, Australia
◾ Meltzer, Allan H. 2003 A History of the Federal Reserve Volume I: 1913–1951 Chicago University Press, Chicago, IL
◾ Rothbard, Murray N. 1963 America's Great Depression D. Van Nostrand Company, Princeton, NJ
◾ Rothbard, Murray N. A History of Money and Banking in the United States: The Colonial Era to World War II (2002)
◾ Samuelson, Paul (1948). "Economics".
◾ White, Eugene N. "The Stock Market Boom and Crash of 1929 Revisited" Journal of Economic Perspectives, Vol. 4, No. 2 (Spring, 1990), pp. 67–83;
examines different theories
Further reading
World
◾ Ambrosius, G. and W. Hibbard. A Social and Economic History of Twentieth-Century Europe (1989)
◾ Barber, Clarence Lyle (University of Manitoba) "On the Origins of the Great Depression" (1978)
◾ Bordo, Michael, and Anna J. Schwartz, eds. A Retrospective on the Classical Gold Standard, 1821–1931 (1984) (National Bureau of Economic Research
Conference Report)
◾ Bordo, Michael et al. eds. The Gold Standard and Related Regimes: Collected Essays (1999)
◾ Brown, Ian. The Economies of Africa and Asia in the Inter-War Depression (1989)
◾ Davis, Joseph S. The World Between the Wars, 1919–39: An Economist's View (1974)
◾ Eichengreen, Barry. Golden Fetters: The Gold Standard and the Great Depression, 1919–1939 (NBER Series on Long-Term Factors in Economic
Development), 1996, ISBN 0-19-510113-8
◾ Eichengreen, Barry, and Marc Flandreau, eds. The Gold Standard in Theory and History (1997)
◾ Feinstein, Charles H. The European Economy Between the Wars (1997)
◾ Garraty, John A. The Great Depression: An Inquiry into the Causes, Course, and Consequences of the Worldwide Depression of the Nineteen-Thirties, as Seen
by Contemporaries and in Light of History (1986)
◾ Garraty, John A. Unemployment in History (1978)
◾ Garside, William R. Capitalism in Crisis: International Responses to the Great Depression (1993)
◾ Haberler, Gottfried. The World Economy, Money, and the Great Depression 1919–1939 (1976)
◾ Hall, Thomas E. and J. David Ferguson. The Great Depression: An International Disaster of Perverse Economic Policies (1998)
◾ Kaiser, David E. Economic Diplomacy and the Origins of the Second World War: Germany, Britain, France and Eastern Europe, 1930–1939 (1980)
◾ Kindleberger, Charles P. The World in Depression, 1929–1939 (1983);
◾ Tipton, F. and R. Aldrich. An Economic and Social History of Europe, 1890–1939 (1987)
United States
◾ Ben S. Bernanke. Essays on the Great Depression (2000)
◾ Bernstein, Michael A. The Great Depression: Delayed Recovery and Economic Change in America, 1929–1939 (1989) focus on low-growth and high-growth
industries
◾ Bordo, Michael D., Claudia Goldin, and Eugene N. White, eds. The Defining Moment: The Great Depression and the American Economy in the Twentieth
Century (1998). Advanced economic history.
◾ Chandler, Lester. America's Greatest Depression (1970). economic history overview.
◾ De Long, Bradford. Liquidation Cycles and the Great Depression (1991)
◾ Horwitz, Steven (2008). "Hoover's Economic Policies". In Henderson, David R. Concise Encyclopedia of Economics (2nd ed.). Indianapolis: Library of
Economics and Liberty. ISBN 978-0865976658. OCLC 237794267.
◾ Jensen, Richard J. "The Causes and Cures of Unemployment in the Great Depression," Journal of Interdisciplinary History 19 (1989) 553–83. online at JSTOR
in most academic libraries
◾ McElvaine, Robert S. The Great Depression (2nd ed 1993) social history
◾ Mitchell, Broadus. Depression Decade: From New Era through New Deal, 1929–1941 (1964), standard economic history overview.
◾ Parker, Randall E. Reflections on the Great Depression (2002) interviews with 11 leading economists
◾ Salsman, Richard M. “The Cause and Consequences of the Great Depression” in The Intellectual Activist, ISSN 0730-2355. Mr. Salsman argues that the Great
Depression was fundamentally caused by statist government policy.
◾ Singleton, Jeff. The American Dole: Unemployment Relief and the Welfare State in the Great Depression (2000) (http://www.questia.com/PM.qst?
a=o&d=24419587)
◾ Warren, Harris Gaylord. Herbert Hoover and the Great Depression (1959).
Role of the United States Federal Reserve
◾ Chandler, Lester V. American Monetary Policy, 1928–41. (1971).
◾ Epstein, Gerald and Thomas Ferguson. "Monetary Policy, Loan Liquidation and Industrial Conflict: Federal Reserve System Open Market Operations in
1932." Journal of Economic History 44 (December 1984): 957–84. in JSTOR
◾ Kubik, Paul J., "Federal Reserve Policy during the Great Depression: The Impact of Interwar Attitudes regarding Consumption and Consumer Credit." Journal
of Economic Issues. Vo: 30. Issue: 3. Publication Year: 1996. pp 829+.
◾ Mayhew, Anne. "Ideology and the Great Depression: Monetary History Rewritten." Journal of Economic Issues 17 (June 1983): 353–60.
◾ Meltzer, Allan H. A History of the Federal Reserve, Volume 1: 1913–1951 (2004) the standard scholarly history
◾ Steindl, Frank G. Monetary Interpretations of the Great Depression. (1995).
◾ Temin, Peter. Did Monetary Forces Cause the Great Depression? (1976).
◾ Wicker, Elmus R. "A Reconsideration of Federal Reserve Policy during the 1920–1921 Depression," Journal of Economic History (1966) 26: 223–38, in
JSTOR
◾ Wicker, Elmus. Federal Reserve Monetary Policy, 1917–33. (1966).
◾ Wells, Donald R. The Federal Reserve System: A History (2004)
◾ Wueschner, Silvano A. Charting Twentieth-Century Monetary Policy: Herbert Hoover and Benjamin Strong, 1917–1927 Greenwood Press. (1999)
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Causes_of_the_Great_Depression&oldid=756605201"
Categories: 1920s Great Depression Causes of events
◾ This page was last modified on 25 December 2016, at 13:22.
◾ Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use
and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
1910年-1960年のアメリカ合衆国の年毎の実質GDP。世界恐慌の期間
(1929年-1939年)をピンク色で示した。
世界恐慌の原因
出典: フリー百科事典『ウィキペディア（Wikipedia）』
この記事は検証可能な参考文献や出典が全く示されていないか、不十分です。
出典を追加して記事の信頼性向上にご協力ください。（2009年11月）
この項目「世界恐慌の原因」は途中まで翻訳されたものです。（原文：英語版 "Causes of the Great
Depression" 00:56, 24 August 2012 （UTC） (https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=Causes_of_the_Great_Depression&oldid=508859943)）
翻訳作業に協力して下さる方を求めています。ノートページや履歴 (https://ja.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=%E4%B8%96%E7%95%8C%E6%81%90%E6%85%8C%E3%81%AE%E5%8E%9F%E5%9B%
A0&action=history)、翻訳のガイドラインも参照してください。要約欄への翻訳情報の記入をお忘れなく。
（2016年2月）
世界恐慌の原因(せかいきょうこうのげんいん)は経済学者達の活発な議論の主題となっており、これは広く見れば経済危機に関する議
論の一環でもある。だが一般的には、世界恐慌は1929年の株価大暴落により引き起こされたと信じられている。世界恐慌時に起きた
個々の経済的事件も徹底的に研究されてきた: そういった事件には、資産や商品価格のデフレ、需要と信用の急降下、貿易網の崩壊、
そして究極的に起こる失業とそれに続く貧困などがある。しかしながら、恐慌を引き起こし、あるいは恐慌からの回復をもたらした政府の
経済政策と個々の事件との因果関係は歴史家の間で意見の一致をみていない。
近年では、理論は二つの主流派といくつかの異説に大きく分けられる。
まず、ケインズ経済学や制度派経済学による需要主導モデルの理論では、不景気は消費不足と(それによってバブル経済が引き起こさ
れたところの)過剰投資によって引き起こされたと主張される。需要主導モデルの理論においては、信用が大きく損なわれたことで消費・
投資活動の急激な減少が起きたということで意見が一致している。一たび混乱・デフレが起こると、多くの人々は市場から距離を置くこと
でこれ以上の損失を回避しようとするというのである。このために物価は下がり続け、等量のお金でも多くの物品を買えるようになる。そ
の結果、お金を貯蓄に回すことが有利となり、更なる需要減少に見舞われることになる。
次に、マネタリストらによれば、世界恐慌は通常の不景気として始まったのだが、その時の通貨当局(特に連邦準備制度)による重大な政
策のミスが金融引締めという結果を招き、これによって経済状況が極端に悪化したために通常の不景気から世界恐慌に至ったという。こ
の説明は、負債デフレによって借り手は実質的により多くの債務を負うことになると指摘する人々と関連がある。
このほかにいくつかの異説があり、それらを支持してケインジアンやマネタリストの説明を否定する者がいる。新しい古典派マクロ経済学
者の中には、恐慌初期に課された様々な労働市場政策が長く深刻な世界恐慌を齎したと主張する者もいる。オーストリア経済学派は、
中央銀行の決定がどのようにして誤投資を招くかとマネーサプライのマクロ経済的影響に着目する。
目次
◾ 1 一般理論による説明
◾ 1.1 主流説
◾ 1.1.1 ケインジアン
◾ 1.1.2 マネタリスト
◾ 1.2 異説
◾ 1.2.1 オーストリア学派
◾ 1.2.2 マルクス主義
◾ 2 原因に関する個々の理論
◾ 2.1 負債デフレ
◾ 2.2 負債以外の原因によるデフレ
◾ 2.3 生産に対する衝撃
◾ 2.4 富と収入の不均衡
◾ 2.5 金本位制
◾ 2.6 金融機関の構造
◾ 2.7 保護貿易主義
◾ 2.8 国際的な債権構造
◾ 2.9 集団動力学
◾ 3 経済政策の役割
◾ 3.1 放任清算主義
◾ 3.2 オーストリア学派の政府膨張論
◾ 3.2.1 消費の増大
◾ 3.2.2 新たな公的規制
◾ 3.2.3 税率の引き上げ
◾ 4 関連項目
◾ 5 脚注
◾ 6 参考文献
◾ 7 関連文献
◾ 7.1 世界
◾ 7.2 アメリカ合衆国
◾ 7.3 連邦準備制度の役割
一般理論による説明
主流説
ケインジアン
多くの経済学者がその活動を主張するところの自己修正機構が不景気に働かないことがある理由は複数あると1936年に経済学者ジョ
ン・メイナード・ケインズが主張した。著書『雇用・利子および貨幣の一般理論』においてケインズは、世界恐慌を説明するための概念を導
入した。不景気時における不干渉主義政策に対する一つの主張として、もし貯蓄によって消費が落ち込むならば貯蓄は利率の低下をも
たらすというものがある。古典派経済学者によれば、低い利率は投資の拡大をもたらし需要が持続的になるという。
しかし、利率が低下しても投資が必ずしも活発にならないことの良い説明があるとケインズは主張する。利益を期待しての投資は事業に
よってもたらされる。それゆえ、消費の落ち込みが長期にわたるならば、事業の分析の傾向として将来の売り上げの期待は低いものとな
る。そのため、低利率によって資本が安価になっても将来の生産量を増大させるような投資は最も関心が向かないものとなるのである。
この場合、消費の減少によって経済は一斉安に陥る[1]。ケインズによれば、この自己強化的活動こそが恐慌時に非常に活発になり、倒
産が頻発して(将来に対する楽観的な期待が必要である)投資がほとんど起こらなくなったのだという。この説は経済学者によってしばし
ばセイの法則に反するものとして特徴づけられ、特にオーストリア経済学派に人気がある。
資本投資の減少が恐慌の原因であるという説は長期停滞論の中心的な主題である。
マネタリスト
1963年の著書『米国金融史 1867年-1960年』において、ミルトン・フリードマンとアンナ・シュウォーツは彼ら流の世界恐慌の説明を開陳し
た。彼らの考えによれば、本質的には、世界恐慌はマネーサプライの減少によってもたらされた。フリードマンとシュウォーツは次のように
書いている: 「1929年8月の周期的な山から1933年の周期的な谷までの間に、通貨流通量は3分の1強にまで落ち込んだ。」その結果が
フリードマンいう所の「大収縮」―金融引き締めの窒息効果による収入・物価・雇用の減退―である。この頃、連邦準備制度が供給する
より以上に人々はお金を欲していたのだとフリードマンとシュウォーツは主張する。その結果人々は消費を減らすことでお金を貯蓄した。
また、物価は即座に下落するほど融通が利かないために、結果として、雇用と生産の収縮が起きた。連邦の過ちは何が起こったのか分
からなかったことや正しい対応を取らなかったことにある[2]。
恐慌以降、その主要な説明はマネーサプライの重要性を無視する傾向があった。しかし、マネタリストによれば、恐慌は「事実上、金融の
効果の重要性の悲劇的な証明である[3]。」彼らによれば、連邦準備制度の世界恐慌に対処する上での失敗は、金融政策が無力である
ことの表れではなく、連邦準備制度が間違った政策を実行したことの表れであるという。彼らは連邦が恐慌を「起こした」と主張しているの
ではなく、不景気が恐慌になるのを防ぐ政策を使い損ねたと言っているだけである。
南北戦争後から20世紀初期にかけて、アメリカ合衆国とヨーロッパは政府が規定する形の金本位制を採用していた。この時期のアメリカ
経済は周期的な好不況の波を受けていた。不景気はしばしば銀行不況によって引き起こされていたとみられ、特に重要なものは1873
年、1893年、1901年、1907年、1920年に起こっている[4]。連邦準備制度が1913年に成立する以前のアメリカ合衆国では銀行システムが
紙幣の兌換性を停止することでこうした(1907年恐慌のような)危機に対処していた。1893年に開始して以降、金融機関やビジネスマンに
よる成長努力がこうした危機に介在し、取り付けに喘ぐ銀行に流動性をもたらしていた。1907年の銀行恐慌の際、J・P・モルガンの招集し
たその場限りの連合がこの方法でうまく介入し、それによって恐慌が遮断されており、このため通常銀行恐慌に続いて起こる大恐慌がこ
の時には起こらなかったのだとされる。政府がこうした解決策をとることが要求されたために連邦準備制度が設立されることとなった[5]。
しかし1928年-1932年には、連邦準備制度は取り付けにあえぐ銀行に流動性をもたらすことはなかった。実際にはその政策はマネーサプ
ライの急激な収縮を許すことで銀行危機に応えていた。狂騒の20年代には、中央銀行は第一の目標を「物価の安定」に定めていたが、
これはニューヨーク連邦準備銀行の総裁ベンジャミン・ストロングが、物価の安定を金融目標とした非常に著名な経済学者アーヴィング・
フィッシャーの弟子だからということもある。そういった事情から中央銀行は社会の物価が安定する程度にドルの流通量を保った。1928年
にストロングが死に、彼の死とともにこの政策が終了し、全ての通貨・証券は背後に実際的な物品を裏付けとして持っているべきだという
真正手形学説が取って代わった。この政策の為にアメリカ合衆国のマネーサプライは1929年から1933年の間に3分の1以上に減少するこ
とになった[6]。
この通貨減少によって銀行への取り付けが起こっても連邦は真正手形学説を保持し、1907年恐慌を遮ったときの方法で銀行に貸し付け
ることを拒否し、代わりに各銀行を破滅的な取り付けにあえぐままにさせ完全に没落させた。この政策によって連鎖的な銀行の倒産が起
こり、当時存在した銀行の3分の1が消滅した。[7]。ベン・バーナンキによれば、続いて起こった信用危機によってさらに倒産の波が起こっ
た[8]。1907年と同じ政策が1930年終わりの銀行恐慌の際にも採用されていればこれによって物価下落時の資産の流動化の強制の悪し
き連鎖が防げただろうとフリードマンは述べた。そうしていれば、1893年や1907年に兌換性停止によって当時の流動性危機がすぐに止ん
だのと同じく、1931年、1932年、1933年の銀行恐慌は起こらなかったであろうというのである[9]。
マネタリストによる説明はサミュエルソンの著書『経済学』において否定されており、「連邦準備制度の金融政策を景気循環を制御する万
能薬とみなす経済学者は今日ではほとんどいない。純粋に金融的なファクターは原因であるのと同じだけ徴候であると考えられる、悪化
させる効果を伴っており完全に無視すべきではない徴候ではあるが[10]。」と述べられている。ケインズ経済学者のポール・クルーグマン
によれば、フリードマンとシュウォーツの著作は1980年代までに主流派経済学者の間で支配的になったが、1990年代日本の「失われた
10年」の下に再考されるべきであるという[11]。経済危機における金融危機の役割は世界金融危機 (2007年-)に関する活発な議論で扱わ
れている。世界金融危機 (2007年-)の原因を参照。
異説
世界恐慌初期の取り付け騒ぎ時にニュー
ヨークのアメリカ連合銀行に集まった群衆
オーストリア学派
世界恐慌は1920年代の連邦準備制度の金融政策の避けられない結果だったとオーストリア経済学派は主張している。彼らの意見では、
この中央銀行の政策は持続不可能な信用によるにわか景気をもたらす「安直な信用政策」であった。オーストリア学派の考えでは、この
時期のマネーサプライのインフレが資産価値(有価証券)と資本財の両者において持続不可能なバブルを引き起こしたという。連邦準備
制度が1928年に遅れて金融引き締めを行うまでには、深刻な経済後退を避けるには手遅れになっていた[12]。1929年の大暴落の後の政
府の介入によって市場の調節が遅れ、完全な回復がより困難になる道が開かれたとオーストリア学派は主張している[13]。
世界恐慌の主原因に関するオーストリア学派の説明を受け入れることはマネタリストの説明の否定を受け入れることと両立する。『アメリ
カの世界恐慌』(1963年)の著者でオーストリア経済学派のマリー・ロスバードはマネタリストの説明を否定している。中央銀行はマネーサ
プライを十分に増やすのに失敗したのだというミルトン・フリードマンの主張をロスバードは批判し、代わりに、1932年に連邦準備制度が
11億ドルの米国債を買い入れて所有国債量を18億ドルとした際、連邦準備制度はインフレ政策を追求していたのだと主張する。中央銀
行の政策に反してデフレが深刻化したのは「マネーサプライ総量が30億ドルに達したのに（民間）銀行の準備金の総量は2億1200万ドル
に留まった」ためであり、これはアメリカの大衆が銀行組織に不信感を抱いてさらに多くの預金を銀行から引き出し退蔵したという、中央
銀行の制御を大きく超える理由によるものだと彼は主張する。ロスバードの主張によると、銀行に対する取付のおそれの為に地銀は準
備金の貸し出しにさらに消極的になり、このために連邦準備制度がインフレを起こせなかったという[14]ことになる。
ロスバードがマネタリストの説明を批判したことに対して、もう一人の卓越したオーストリア経済学派のメンバーフリードリヒ・ハイエクは反
対した。ハイエクは、自身が1930年に中央銀行のデフレ政策に反対しなかったことが誤っていたと1975年に認め、曖昧な態度をとったこ
とに関して釈明した: 「当時私は、幾分短い期間におけるデフレの過程は、(経済が機能することと両立不可能だと私が考えていたところ
の)賃金の硬直性を破壊するものだと考えていた[15]。」 1978年には彼は「一たび急落が起こると連邦準備制度は愚かなデフレ政策を追
求するようになるということに関してミルトン・フリードマンに賛成する」と述べてマネタリストの見解に賛成し、デフレに反対してインフレに
賛成することを明らかにした[16]。この流れを汲んで、マネーサプライの強い引き締めを許すような金融政策とハイエクの景気循環理論は
矛盾すると経済学者のローレンス・H・ホワイトが主張している。
マルクス主義
「資本主義#マルクス学派」も参照
マルクス主義者は概して、資本主義モデルに固有の不安定性が世界恐慌を引き起こしたのだと主張する[17]。
原因に関する個々の理論
負債デフレ
詳細は「負債デフレ」を参照
アメリカ合衆国のGDPに対する負債の割合は世界恐慌の時までには300%に達した。この
割合は20世紀終わりまで越えられることはなかった[18]。
ジェローム(1934年)は戦間期の産業の大発展を可能にした財政状態に関する原典不明の
引用をしている:
恐らく未だかつてこの国でこれほどの量の国債がこれほど低い利率、これほど長い
期間にわたって出されたことはなかった[19]。
さらに、スタンダード・スタティスティックス社による60度の国債の指数が1923年の4.98%から
4.47%になった際には新たな資本発行の量が1922年から1929年の年平均から7.7%増加し
たとジェロームは述べている。
1920年代には特にフロリダ州で不動産・住宅のバブルが起こったが1925年に破裂した。
1920年代の住宅建設は人口増加の勢いを25%上回っていたとアルヴィン・ハンセンが述べている[20]。参照:1920年代フロリダの土地バブ
ル
アーヴィング・フィッシャーは、世界恐慌を引き起こした主原因は負債過多とデフレだと主張した。フィッシャーは信用の低下を負債過多と
結びつけ、負債過多が投機熱と資産バブルを刺激したのだとしている[21]。負債・デフレという状況下で相互作用し、バブルが起こり崩壊
する仕組みを作りだした九つの要因を彼は概説している。それら先行する出来事の連鎖は以下:
1. 負債の流動化と占有権の売却
2. 銀行ローンとしてのマネーサプライの緊縮が清算される
3. 資産価格水準の低下
4. 全体としての商業価値の深刻な低下、突然の破産
5. 利益の低下
6. 商業・雇用における生産量の低下
7. 信用の減少とペシミズム
8. お金の死蔵
9. 名目金利の低下と利率にあわせたデフレの拡大[21]
ウォール街大暴落後にウォール街に群がる
群衆
世界恐慌に先行する1929年の急落の際、証拠金規定額は10%にすぎなかった[22]。つまり、
株式仲売業者は投資社が1ドル預けるごとに9ドル貸し付けた。市場が急落した際、業者は
こうしたローンを回収しようとしたが、それは返ってくることはなかった。債務者が債務不履
行を起こし、預金者が一斉に預金を回収しようとすることで取り付け騒ぎが起こり、銀行が
倒産し始めた。こうした騒ぎを食い止めるための政府の保証や連邦準備制度による銀行の
規制は効果がないか使われなかった。銀行の破産により数十億ドルの資産が失われた
[23]。
物価と収入が20-50%減少しているのに負債は同価格であるため、未払いの負債が重くのし
かかった。1929年の混乱の後、1930年最初の10か月間に744のアメリカ合衆国の銀行が破
産した(1930年代には全部で9000ほどの銀行が破産した)。1933年4月までに、3月の銀行の
法定休日の後に無資格の預金や破産した銀行の70億ドルの預金が凍結された[24]。
絶望した銀行家が、借り手が返すお金・時間を持てないほどの勢いで貸付金の回収を行う
とともに銀行の倒産が連鎖的に起こった。予測利益が低いものであったため、資本投資や
建築が停滞した。不良債権や将来の見通しの悪化に直面し、生きのこった銀行は貸付によ
り消極的になった[23]。銀行は基本準備金を増加させるとともに貸し付けを減らし、これに
よってデフレ圧を強めた。悪しき循環が進み、下降スパイラルが増加した。
負債の流動化は自身が引き起こした物価の下降を食い止められなかった。自身の資産を
流動させようという大衆の衝動的行動の大局的効果によってデフレが加速し、資産量減衰
の価値に影響した。自身の負債を減らそうとする個々人の努力こそが事実上それを増大さ
せていた。逆説的だが、負債者が払えば払うほど、彼らは負債を多く抱えることになった
[21]。この自己悪化の過程が1930年の不景気を1933年の世界恐慌へ変えた。
連邦準備銀行の総裁ベン・バーナンキのようなマクロ経済学者がフィッシャーに由来する世界恐慌の負債デフレ説を復活させた[25][26]。
負債以外の原因によるデフレ
負債デフレに加えて、19世紀最後の四半世紀の大デフレ以降に起こった生産性デフレの構成要素が存在した[27] 。第一次世界大戦に
よって起こったインフレを強める補正もおそらく継続していた。
48州で見つかった中でも最大の油田、東テキサス油田が操業して、1930年代には原油価格が歴代最安値に達していた。原油市場にお
ける過剰供給のため価格は10セント/バレルにまで低下していた[28]。参照: 世界恐慌の原因#生産に対する衝撃
生産に対する衝撃
20世紀最初の30年には資本投資と経済生産高が電化・大量生産・輸送機関の電動化・農業の機械化とともに湧き起こり、生産性の急速
な増加により、多くの工場の閉鎖や物価の下落とともに余剰生産能力の増大が見られた[19][29]。結果として、世界恐慌の前の10年には
一週の労働時間が僅かに減少していた[30][31][32]。世界恐慌によってさらに多くの工場が閉鎖した[19]。
「我々の述べる[生産性、生産高、雇用の]傾向が1929年以前に完全に明白だったことをあまり極端に強調することはできな
い。この傾向はこの恐慌の結果では決してないし、世界大戦の結果でもない。そうではなくて、この恐慌はこういった長期に
わたる傾向の結果起こった崩壊なのである[33]。」マリオン・キング・ヒューバート
全米経済研究所の援助により出版されたジェローム『産業の機械化』(1934年)には、機械化が生産高を増大させる傾向を持つのか労働
力を解雇する傾向を持つのかは生産物の要求の弾力性に依存すると述べられている[19]。また、生産コスト現象は必ずしも消費者に還元
されない。さらに、第一次世界大戦以降ウマやラバが非動物の動力に取って代わられるとともに家畜飼料の需要が減少して農業は不利
な影響を被ったと述べられている。「技術的失業」という術語は世界恐慌時の労働環境を表すのに使われるとも『産業の機械化』に記さ
れている[19]。
「戦間期アメリカ合衆国の特徴である失業の増大の幾分かは非弾力的需要に応じた商品を生産する産業の機械化が原因
であるといえるだろう[19]。」フレデリック・C・ウェルズ、1934年
1923年の景気循環の頂点からしばらく後、過剰な労働者が雇用創生と比較して生産性発展により取って代わられており、1925年以降の
失業の拡大を引き起こした[34][29]。
アメリカ合衆国の主要産業の生産性の劇的な拡大とその生産品、賃金、労働時間に対する影響が、ブルッキングス研究所の支援により
出版された書籍の中で議論されている。[27]
肥料、機械化、品種改良を通じた生産性ショックこそが農産物価格の低下を引き起こしたのだとジョセフ・スティグリッツとブルース・グリー
ンウォルドが主張した。農家は過剰な労働力供給を加えた土地に押し込められていたのだという[35]。
農産物価格は第一次世界大戦後に低下し始めた。結果的に多くの農家が商売として農業を成り立たせられなくなり、数百の小規模な地
銀の倒産を招いた。トラクター、肥料、雑種トウモロコシによる農業生産性は問題の一部にすぎなかった; 他の問題とはウマ・ラバから内
燃力輸送機関への転換であった。ウマ・ラバの数は第一次世界大戦以降減少し始め、家畜飼料を生産していた大量の土地が余るように
なった[19][36]。
自動車・バスが電車の発展を止めるようになった[37]。
富と収入の不均衡
ウォディル・キャッチングズ、ウィリアム・トゥルファント・フォスター、レックスフォード・タグウェル、アドルフ・バール(、そして後にはジョン・ケ
ネス・ガルブレイス)といった経済学者はフランクリン・ルーズベルトに幾分かの影響を与えた理論を普及させた[38]。その理論とは、経済
が、消費者に十分な収入がないにもかかわらず、消費者が購入できる以上の商品を生産してしまった、というものである[39][40][41]。この説
によれば、1920年代の賃金の上昇率は生産性の上昇率を下回っていたのである。生産性が増大したことによる恩恵のほとんどは利潤と
なってしまい、それは株式市場バブルを引き起こしたものの、消費者の購買行動には繋がらなかった。このように、1920年代を通じて富
が不平等に分配されたことが世界恐慌を引き起こしたという。
この説によれば、世界恐慌の根本的な原因は、独立企業による賃金・収入の水準が十分な購買力を生み出すに達していないにもかか
わらず行われた世界的な過剰投資である。また、政府は富裕層に対する課税を重くすることで収入をより平等にすべきだった、と主張さ
れる。政府は、歳入の増加を利用して公共事業を行って雇用を増加させることで経済を「蹴って始動」させられた、という。だがアメリカ合
衆国では1932年まで、これとは正反対の経済政策が行われていたのである。大統領退任前年のハーバート・フーヴァーに紹介されフラ
ンクリン・ルーズベルトによって採用されることになった<1932年歳入法>や公共事業計画が、購買力をある程度再分配することに成功し
たのである[42][43]。
金本位制
世界恐慌の金本位制理論によれば、恐慌の原因は主に、第一次世界大戦後の西側諸国が戦前の値段に基づく金本位制に復帰しようと
したことにである。この説によれば、これによって金融政策がデフレ志向になり10年間にわたってヨーロッパの多くの国の経済の健全性を
害し続けたという。
この戦後政策に先駆けてインフレ政策がとられていた第一次世界大戦中には、多くのヨーロッパ諸国は戦費の激増により金本位制を廃
止せざるを得なかった。この結果、新しく作られた金の供給がインフレを中和させる生産性への投資ではなく戦費に使われたため、インフ
レが起こった。この説は、大量に導入された金の量によってインフレ率が決まり、それゆえインフレへ導くことが、破壊的・消費的であって
経済成長を導かない目的のために造られた新貨幣の総量を減少させるというものである。
戦後アメリカやヨーロッパ諸国が金本位制に復帰した際、多くの国は戦前の水準の金-通貨レートをとった。例えばイギリスでは1925年に
金本位法が国会を通過し、これによって金本位制に復帰した際、当時外国為替市場で戦前よりもずっと低い価格でポンドが取引されて
いたにもかかわらずスターリング・ポンドを戦前と等価に設定するという致命的な決定を行った。当時ジョン・メイナード・ケインズらは、政
府はそうすることによって釣り合いが取れていないような賃金再設定を強いているのだと主張してこの決定を批判した。ウィンストン・
チャーチルが金本位制に復帰させたことに対するケインズの批判はこれを暗にヴェルサイユ条約の結果と比較するものであった。
戦前と等価にしようという傾向が生まれた理由として一つは、デフレは危険ではないのに対してインフレは、特にヴァイマール共和国に見
られるインフレは耐え難い危険であるという当時優勢であった意見があった。もう一つの理由として、額面価額で貸し付けている者は自
身が貸し付けたのと同価値の金を回復できる期待があったというものがある[citation needed]。フランスに支払わなければならない巨額
の賠償金を支払うための外貨を獲得するのに十分な商品を輸出・販売するために、ドイツは信用を犠牲にした成長の時代に入った。世
界の金の溜まる場所としてのアメリカ合衆国はドイツがフランスに償還するための基盤として産業化するための資金を貸し付け、フランス
はイギリスおよびアメリカに償還した。この流れはドーズ案に明文化された。
非常に高利の借金をして再融資もできない状態にあるか、低利率ではないときに資本財に融資するための貸し付けに依存している場
合、農業のような産業分野にとってデフレは辛いものとなりうる。負債の実質的価値が増加しているのに対して物価はデフレに浸食され
ていく。資産を現金で保持している者や、資産を投資・購買に充てたり資金を貸し付けたりしようとしている者にとってはデフレは有益であ
る。
ピーター・テミン、ベン・バーナンキ、バリー・アイケングリーンといった経済学者によるより近年の研究は、世界恐慌時に緊縮政策がとら
れていたことに着目している。この考え方によれば、戦間期の金本位制下での緊縮は最初の経済的ショックを拡大し、恐慌を食い止める
あらゆる行動に対して大きな障害となったという。彼らによれば、最初の不安定化させる衝撃はアメリカ合衆国のウォール街大暴落に起
因するが、外国に問題を伝播させたのは金本位制であるという[44]。
彼らの出した結論によると、危機の時代の政策決定者たちは金融政策・財政政策を緩和しようとしたが、そのような行動が、契約上の率
で金を交換する義務を維持する国家の能力を脅かしたという。外国の資産を金で買おうとする国際的投資家を引き付けるために、金本
位制は高利率を維持することを要求する。そのため、金本位制を廃止しない限り、政府は景気の急落にも手をこまねいているほかない。
金本位制をとる全ての国の交換比率を修正することで、外国為替市場が利率の平衡を保つ事だけは保証される。恐慌が悪化すると多く
の国が金本位制を廃止し始め、より早く廃止した国々はより少なくデフレの影響を受けてより早くデフレから回復する傾向があった[45]。
自由銀行制派経済学者にしてミルトン・フリードマンの弟子のリチャード・ティンバーレイクは自身の立場を『アメリカ合衆国の金融政策に
みられる金本位制と実質手形原理』で明確に説明したが、この論文での彼の主張によると、連邦準備制度は実は金本位制化においてか
なりの余裕を持っており、そのことがニューヨーク連邦準備銀行総裁ベンジャミン・ストロングによる1923年から1928年の物価安定政策に
よって証明されたという。しかし1928年後半にストロングが没すると、ニューヨーク連邦準備銀行の支配権を引き継いだ派閥が、全ての金
は実際の商品によって代表されなければならないという実質手形原理を唱道した。ドルに30%のデフレを強いて当然合衆国経済に損害
を与えたこの政策は恣意的で、避けられるものであって、金本位制はこれなしに存続できたとティンバーレイクが述べている:
金の管理におけるこの移行は決定的であった。ストロングは前任者に従って金本位制という足かせに頓着せずに物価安定政策を
実行し、実質手形原理の支持者は自身の理想とする政策を実行する上で同様に束縛を受けずに済んだ。1928年-1929年のシステ
ムポリシーは結果的に物価安定から受動的な実質手形に移行した。「この」金本位制はそれが再出現するのに好都合な時を待つ
形式的な見せ掛けでしかない場所で残存した[46]。
金融機関の構造
経済史家(特にフリードマンとシュウォーツ)が多くの銀行が倒産したことの重要性を強調する。倒産は主にアメリカの地方で起こった。地
域経済の構造的な脆弱性によって地銀が非常に貧弱になっていたのである。農家は既に多額の負債を抱えており、1920年代に農場価
格が急落するのと負債の予想実質比率が跳ね上がるのとを目にした。
ニューヨーク株価指数
彼らの土地は(1919年の地価バブルの結果として)過剰に法的義務
を負わされており、穀物の価格が低いために彼らは所有物を売り
払うことを強いられた。小銀行、特に農業経済と結びついた小銀行
は1920年代には突然の実質利率の上昇による顧客の債務不履行
のために常に危機的状況にあった; こういった小銀行の間には20
年代を通じて既に倒産の波が押し寄せていたのである。
都銀もまたショックへの弱さをもたらす構造的脆弱性に苦しんでい
た。国内最大の銀行の中には適量の準備金を保持せずに、株式市
場で大量の投資を行ったりリスクの高い貸し付けを行ったりするも
のもあった。ニューヨーク市銀によるドイツやラテンアメリカへの貸し
付けは特に高リスクであった。つまり、銀行機構は大不景気の
ショックを低減するように十分に準備されていなかったのである。
ウォール街大暴落に関する事実をどれだけ特定できるか経済学
者・歴史家が議論している。時期は明らかである。; 将来の利益に
対する期待への衝撃は甚大であった。1928年-1929年の市場はファ
ンダメンタルズによって定められたよりも極端に物価が高い「バブ
ル」であったとほとんどのアナリストが考えている。そのことに何らかの点で責任があるが、どれだけ責任があるかを推量することはでき
ないと経済学者たちは認めている。「1929年の株式市場の崩壊が最初の不景気に役割を果たしたことは片時も疑えない[47]」とミルトン・
フリードマンが結論付けている。
議論は三つのグループに分かれている: 最初のグループは、急落が将来の予想の劇的な低下と大量の資本投資の撤退とによって恐慌
を引き起こしたと述べる; 第二のグループは、1929年夏に景気がずり落ちて急落がそれを追認したと述べる; 第三のグループは、どちら
のシナリオにおいても急落は不景気を引き起こす以上のことはなしえないと述べる。市場は1930年4月には一旦回復したが、それ以降物
価は再び下がり続け、1932年7月にやっと最終的な底値に達した。これはどう計ってもアメリカ合衆国で最長期間の市場の衰退である。
1930年の不景気から1931年-1932年の大恐慌への遷移の為に、全く異なる要因が役割を果たしたのである[48]。
保護貿易主義
スムート・ホーリー法にみられるような保護貿易主義は、保護貿易主義政策をとってその結果近隣窮乏化政策に至った国々とともに、世
界恐慌の原因としてしばしば挙げられる[49][50]。スムート・ホーリー法は農家の債務不履行を招いており、特に農業に対して有害であっ
た。この出来事により中西部や西部での取り付けが起こったか悪化したかして、その結果銀行機構が崩壊した。1000人以上の経済学者
が署名した嘆願書が連邦政府に提出され、その嘆願書中でスムート・ホーリー法が経済に壊滅的な影響をもたらすという警告がなされ
た; しかし、これによってスムート・ホーリー法の議会通過が覆ることはなかった。
変動相場制ではなく金本位制をとる国で保護貿易主義が採用されたことを鑑み、保護貿易主義は恐慌の原因ではなく恐慌に対する「反
応」であったと主張する経済学者もいる[50]: 金本位制をとる国々は利率を切り下げたり最後の貸し手となったりすることができなかった、
というのはそれらの国々はいずれ金を切らすが、金本位制を取らない国々は利率を切り下げて不換紙幣を印刷することができるからで
ある。この解釈の下では、保護貿易主義は、金融政策が金本位制に縛られている国々の貿易条件を変化させるのに一役買ったといえ
る。
国際的な債権構造
1918年に終戦を迎えると、ヨーロッパの国でアメリカ合衆国と提携している国は全てアメリカの銀行から多額の借金をし、その借金の総
額はそれらの国々の大戦で蕩尽された国庫では支払いきれないほどになった。これが、連合国がドイツやオーストリア・ハンガリーに対し
て(ウッドロウ・ウィルソンを驚嘆させたほどの)賠償金を要求した理由の一つである。連合国の信ずるところによれば、賠償金のおかげで
連合国は負債を清算する目途がたつはずだった。しかし、ドイツとオーストリア・ハンガリー自身が戦後に深刻な経済危機に陥っていた;
連合国が負債を支払えない以上にドイツとオーストリア・ハンガリーが賠償金を支払えないという状況であった。
債務国は1920年代にアメリカ合衆国に負債の免除か少なくとも負債の軽減を行うことを強く要求した。対するアメリカ政府はその要求を
拒否した。代わりに、アメリカの銀行が欧州諸国に対して大規模な貸し付けを始めた。そのため、負債(と賠償金)は古い負債を増額させ
て新しい負債を積み重ねることによってのみ支払われる。1920年代後半には、特にアメリカ経済が1929年以降に弱体化してからは、欧
州諸国がアメリカからさらに金を借りるのが困難になった。同時に、アメリカの高い関税によって、欧州諸国が商品をアメリカ市場で売る
のが非常に困難になった。借金を払い戻すために貿易によって収入を得ることもできず、欧州諸国は債務不履行を起こし始めた。
1920年代後半になると、ヨーロッパのアメリカに対する商品需要は減少し始めた。これは、ヨーロッパの産業・農業の生産性が増したから
というのもあるし、いくつかの欧州諸国(最も顕著なのはヴァイマル共和制下のドイツ)が深刻な経済危機にあえいでいて外国の商品を買
う余裕がなかったからというのもある。しかし、1920年代後半にヨーロッパ経済を不安定化させた主原因は、第一次世界大戦の余波の中
で起きた国際的債権構造である。
スムート・ホーリー法のような関税障壁によって戦争負債の支払いが致命的に妨害された。アメリカ合衆国の高関税の結果、ある種の循
環のみによって賠償金や戦争支払いの続行がなされた。1920年代に、かつての連合国は主にドイツの賠償金支払いによって得られた
資金によって戦争負債を分割支払いし、ドイツはアメリカ合衆国とイギリスからの私的な借金によってのみ支払うことができた。同様に、
アメリカが海外に投資したドルのみによって諸外国がアメリカの輸出品を購入することができた。
1929年の株式市場急落に続く流動性の奪い合いの中、ヨーロッパからアメリカへ資金が回収され、ヨーロッパの脆弱な経済が砕け散っ
た。
1931年までに、世界は近現代で最悪の恐慌によってがたつき、賠償金や戦争負債の構造全体が崩壊した。
10億固定ドル価による1920年-1940年のアメリカ合衆国の年毎
のGDPと長期間の趨勢
集団動力学
1939年に、著名な経済学者アルヴィン・ハンセンが恐慌と連動して人口増加率が減少すると主張した[51]。同じ説が1978年の雑誌記事で
マニトバ大学の経済学者クラレンス・バーバーによって主張された。一種のハロッasfdド・ドーマーモデルを用いて世界恐慌を分析し、彼はこう
述べている:
「このモデルでは、ハロッドの自然成長率の減少を生み出す状況に、より具体的には人口増加率、労働力増加率、生産性・技術発
展性の増加率が正当な成長率以下にまで減少している中に、深刻な恐慌の起源を探ることになる[52]。
1920年代の「生産性成長率」の減少の「はっきりした証拠はない」が、同時期の人口増加率現象の「はっきりした証拠」はあるとバーバー
は述べている。深刻な恐慌を引き起こすうえで十分重要な「自然成長率」の減少は人口増加率現象によって起きたのであろうと彼は述べ
ている[52]。
バーバーは、おそらく人口増加率の減少が住宅需要に影響したのだろうと述べ、これが1920年代に起こったことと見受けられると主張し
ている。かれはこう結論している:
「農家以外の家庭の急速で非常に大規模な増加率減少こそが明らかに、1926年以降のアメリカ合衆国の住宅建築界に起こったこ
とである。そしてこの減少が、ボルチとピルグリムが主張し続けているように、1929年の都心の大恐慌への転換の最も重要な一要
因なのであろう[53]。」
1920年代の人口増加率現象の原因の中には1910年以降の出産率低下[54]や移民の減少がある。移民の減少は主に1920年代に大幅な
移民抑制策がとられたことにある。1921年に緊急移民制限法が議会を通過し、続いて1924年移民法が制定された。
経済政策の役割
放任清算主義
今日の主流派経済学派の考えでは、政府は広く名目上の累計を安定した
成長傾向に留めておくよう努力すべきだった(新しい古典派やマネタリストに
とって、基準は名目マネーサプライである; ケインズ経済学派にとって、基
準は名目総需要それ自体である)。名目マネーストックと総名目需要を急落
しないよう保つために、恐慌期には、中央銀行は銀行機構に流動性を注入
するべきであり、政府は税率を切り下げ消費を促進すべきであった[55]。
連邦政府と連邦準備制度は1929年-1932年にこれを行わず、世界恐慌へと
陥った。経済史家の間で一般的になってきている説では、連邦準備制度の
政策決定者たちの清算主義理論への執着が破滅的な結果を招いたとされ
る[56]。「清算主義」の存在が世界恐慌という宿痾と戦わない公共政策を決
定する動機づけをするうえで重要な役割を果たした。フーヴァー大統領はこ
う書いている:[57]
“ メロン財務長官に率いられた放任清算主義者たちが[...]政
府は手を出さずにスランプ自己清算するのに任せるべきだ
と感じている。メロン氏はたった一つの方策を持っている:
「労働を清算せよ、株式を清算せよ、農家を清算せよ、不動
産を清算せよ」[...]「それによってシステムから腐敗が排除
される。高額の生命、高い生命は低下する。人々はより働
き、より道徳的に生活するようになる。価値観が調節され、
人々を楽しませることが競争力に劣る人々の破滅を防ぐ。」”
「ケインジアン革命」以前は、このような清算主義理論が経済学者のとる一般的立場であり、フリードリヒ・ハイエク、ライオネル・ロビン
ズ、ヨーゼフ・シュンペーター、シーモア・ハリスといった経済学者によってこの理論が主張・発展させられた[58]。清算主義者によれば恐慌
は良薬である。恐慌の機能は、非生産的な使用から生産の要因(資本と労働)を解放するために、技術的発展のために時代遅れとなり失
敗した投資・ビジネスを清算することだとされた。それらの要因は技術的に活発な経済分野に回された。彼らは1920年-1921年の恐慌に
言及して、この恐慌は1920年代後半の繁栄の基礎を築いたと主張した。彼らは(1921年に既に実行されていた)デフレ政策をとることを要
求し、この政策は資本・労働力を非生産的な活動から解放して新たな経済的バブルの基礎を築くのに使うものだと主張した。経済の自己
調節が大量の倒産を起こすとしても、そうなるのに任せておくべきだと清算主義者たちは主張した[59]。というのは、聖餐過程を延期するこ
とは徒に社会的コストを増大させるだけだと彼らが考えていたからである。シュンペーターの著作によれば、それは[60]
“ [...]回復は、ひとりでに起こったときにのみ健全であると私たちに信じさせてくれる。人工的な刺激のみによるいかなる復
活も、十分に恐慌の働きが行き届かない部分を残し、環境不適応だった部分が消化され切らずに残った部分に対してそ
れ自体の新たな環境不適応が加えられ、それがまた生産を必要とするようになり、後々に別の[より悪い)危機によって商
業を脅かすのである。”
清算主義者の期待に反して、株式資本の大部分は世界恐慌一年目に転換・消去されなかった。オリヴィエ・ブランチャードとローレンス・
サマーズの研究によれば、1933年までに不景気によって1924年以前のレベルの資本蓄積が起こった[61]。
ジョン・メイナード・ケインズやミルトン・フリードマンといった経済学者は、清算主義理論から帰結する放置策が世界恐慌の深刻化に資し
たと主張している[62]。ケインズは嘲笑のレトリックによって、ハイエク、ロビンズ、シュンペーターを以下のように表すことで清算主義思想
の信用を失わせようとした。
“ [...]禁欲的・清教徒的な心根が[世界恐慌を][...]彼らの言うところの「過膨張」にたいする不可避にして望ましい報いとして
扱う[...]。それは、過剰な繁栄が続く全体的な倒産によってバランスがとられなかったときに、不正な富に対して起こる勝
利だと彼らは感じている。自分たちが丁重にも「延期された清算」と呼ぶものが自分たちを正してくれることを望むと彼ら
は述べている。彼らが我々に述べるところによると、清算は未だ完了していない。しかしやがては完了する。そして清算
が完了するのに十分な時間がたてば、全ては再び我々にとって良くなる[...]
”
ミルトン・フリードマンは、こういった「危険なナンセンス」はシカゴ大学では決して教えられていないこと、なぜ(このナンセンスが教えられ
ている)ハーヴァードで若く明敏な経済学者達が自分たちの師のマクロ経済学を否定してケインジアンに転向するのかを自分は分かって
いること、を述べた[63]。彼はこう書いている:
“ 私が思うにオーストリア学派の景気循環理論は世界に大きな悪影響をもたらした。あなたがキー・ポイントたる1930年代
に戻れば、ロンドンにオーストリア学派がはびこっているのが見られて、ハイエクやライオネル・ロビンズに世界が景気の
底にあるのを放置しろと言われるだろう。あなたはそれに従って景気が自己回復するに任せることになるだろう。それに
対して何かをすることは許されない。何をしてもより悪くなるだけなのだから。[...]私が思うにこの種の放置策に焚き付けら
れて、イギリスでもアメリカでも彼らは害を為したのである[64]。”
経済学者ローレンス・H・ホワイトは、ハイエクとロビンズが1930年代初期のデフレ政策に積極的には反対しなかったことを認めたが、そ
れにも関わらず、ハイエクが清算主義の唱道者であったというミルトン・フリードマン、ジェームズ・ブラッドフォード・デロングその他の主張
に挑戦した。ハイエクとロビンズの景気循環理論(後に今日知られているようなオーストリア景気循環理論に発展する)は実はマネーサプ
ライの強い引き締めを許すような金融政策とは矛盾するものだったとホワイトは主張する。それにもかかわらず、世界恐慌の際にはハイ
エクは「1929年-1932年の強いデフレと名目収入の萎縮に曖昧な態度をとった[65]」とホワイトは述べている。1975年の講話で、ハイエクは
自身が40年以上前に中央銀行のデフレ政策に反対しなかったことの非を認め、曖昧な理由をとったことの理由を説明した: 「当時私はあ
る程度短期間のデフレの過程は、経済が機能することと相容れないと私が考えていた賃金の硬直性を破壊すると信じていた[66]。」その
三年後、ハイエクは世界恐慌初期の連邦の突然のマネーサプライの引き締めと連邦が銀行に流動性を供給するのに失敗したことを強く
批判した:
“ 「一たび急落が起こると連邦準備制度が愚かなデフレ政策に走ったという点に関して私はミルトン・フリードマンに同意す
る。私は単にインフレに反対しているのではなく、デフレにも反対している。だから、もう一度、間違って計画された金融政
策が恐慌を引き延ばす[67]。”
オーストリア学派の政府膨張論
消費の増大
フーヴァーが連邦政府の消費を50%引き上げたのは効果的だった。ほとんどの増大が1932年に起こり、それに同調して長い不景気が
ゆっくりと終わりを迎えた。オーストリア経済学派の中でも自由銀行制派に属する経済学者スティーヴン・ホーウィッツは、短い不景気だっ
たはずのものを長引かせて「大恐慌」にしてしまったとしてフーヴァーの消費を責めている:
短い不景気に終わるはずだったものを、より深刻で、ずっと長い大恐慌に変えてしまったという批判をハーヴァート・フーヴァーはう
まく捌いている[...]彼は恐慌と戦うために政府の役割を大きく拡張した[...]その結果は、不幸なことに(しかし驚くべきことではなく)、
火と上手く戦ったというよりもむしろ炎を煽った[68]。
デイヴィッド・ワインバーガーは、このアプローチを、ウィルソンの強い連邦政府が引き起こした恐慌の下で経済を劇的に刺激したと彼が
述べた(正当なチャートにおいても見られる)クーリッジ政権下の消費・税・赤字の切り下げと対比した[69]。クーリッジ政権の商務長官とし
てフーヴァーが消費増大とクーリッジの下での規制を奨励したが、多くの部分を1929年に彼自身が実行したことに彼は注目する[70]。GDP
に占める連邦の消費が成長し続けていたことを発見したランダル・グレゴリー・ホルコムが述べているように、フーヴァーの下でのこの大
成長はフーヴァーによる景気下降で歳入を減らしたとしても事実連邦準備制度の下で以上の事がなされたことは明らかだという[71]。
新たな公的規制
著書『アメリカの世界恐慌』、『ハーバート・フーヴァーの恐慌』その他において、マリー・ロスバードは、フーヴァーが示した産業・農業・雇
用といった分野における新たな連邦規制の一覧を提示したが、彼はそれを世界恐慌をもたらした連邦準備制度の干渉主義と結びつけて
述べた[72]。
税率の引き上げ
1932年にフーヴァーは歳入法を制定して税率を劇的に引き上げた。彼はあらゆる層に対する税を引き上げ、最貧困層に対する税を三倍
にして富裕層に対する税率を25%から63%に上げた[73][74]。この高率の税は会計年度であり長い不景気が終わった年に同調して支払わ
れた。
関連項目
◾ 政治哲学
◾ 世界恐慌のタイムライン
脚注
1. ^ Keen 2000, p.198.
2. ^ Paul Krugman, "Who Was Milton Friedman?" New York Review of
Books Volume 32, Number 32 · February 3, 2007 online community
(http://www.nybooks.com/articles/19857)
3. ^ Friedman 1965, p.4.
4. ^ The History of Economic Downturns in the US -- But Now You
Know.net (http://butnowyouknow.wordpress.com/those-who-fail-tolearn-
from-history/history-of-economic-downturns-in-the-us/)
5. ^ * Bruner, Robert F.; Carr, Sean D. (2007), The Panic of 1907:
Lessons Learned from the Market's Perfect Storm, Hoboken, New
Jersey: John Wiley & Sons, ISBN 978-0-470-15263-8
6. ^ Gold Standards and the Real Bills Doctrine in US Monetary Policy,
Richard H Timberlake, published in Econ Journal Watch, August
2005 --
http://www.econjournalwatch.org/pdf/TimberlakeIntellectualTyrannyAugust2005.pdf
7. ^ Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar
publishing, 2003, ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 11
8. ^ Ben Bernanke, "Non-monetary effects of the financial crisis in the
propagation of the Great Depression", (1983) American Economic
Review . Am 73#3 257–76.
9. ^ Friedman 2007, p.15.
10. ^ (Samuelson 1948, p. 353)
11. ^ Samuelson, Friedman, and monetary policy
(http://krugman.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/12/14/samuelson-friedmanand-
monetary-policy/), Paul Krugman, New York Times Blog,
December 14, 2009
12. ^ Murray Rothbard, America's Great Depression (Ludwig von Mises
Institute, 2000), pp. 159-163.
13. ^ Rothbard, America's Great Depression, pp. 19-21"
14. ^ Rothbard, A History of Money and Banking in the United States,
pp.293-294.
15. ^ White, Clash of Economic Ideas, p. 94. See alsoWhite, Lawrence
(2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?”.
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751–768.
doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x (http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%
2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
16. ^ F. A. Hayek, interviewed by Diego Pizano July, 1979 published in:
Diego Pizano, Conversations with Great Economists: Friedrich A.
Hayek, John Hicks, Nicholas Kaldor, Leonid V. Kantorovich, Joan
Robinson, Paul A.Samuelson, Jan Tinbergen (Jorge Pinto Books,
2009).
17. ^ http://www.marxists.org/archive/corey/1934/decline/index.html
18. ^ [1]
(http://www.johnmauldin.com/images/uploads/pdf/mwo071811.pdf)
Several graphs of total debt to GDP can be found on the Internet.
19. ^ a b c d e f g Jerome, Harry (1934). Mechanization in Industry,
National Bureau of Economic Research
20. ^ Hansen, Alvin (1939). “Economic Progress and Declining
Population Growth”. American Economic Review' 29 (March)
21. ^ a b c Fisher, Irving (October 1933). “The Debt-Deflation Theory of
Great Depressions”. Econometrica (The Econometric Society) 1 (4):
337–357. doi:10.2307/1907327 (http://dx.doi.org/10.2307%
2F1907327). JSTOR 1907327 (http://www.jstor.org/stable/1907327).
22. ^ Fortune, Peter (Sept-Oct, 2000). “Margin Requirements, Margin
Loans, and Margin Rates: Practice and Principles - analysis of history
of margin credit regulations - Statistical Data
Included” (http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m3937/is_2000_Sept-
Oct/ai_80855422/pg_3/?tag=content;col1). New England Economic
Review.
23. ^ a b “Bank Failures
(http://www.livinghistoryfarm.org/farminginthe30s/money_08.html)”.
Living History Farm. 2008年5月22日閲覧。
24. ^ "Friedman and Schwartz, Monetary History of the United States",
352
25. ^ Bernanke, Ben S (June 1983). “Non-Monetary Effects of the
Financial Crisis in the Propagation of the Great Depression”. The
American Economic Review (The American Economic Association)
73 (3): 257–276. JSTOR 1808111
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/1808111).
26. ^ Mishkin, Fredric (December 1978). “The Household Balance and
the Great Depression”. Journal of Economic History 38 (04): 918–37.
doi:10.1017/S0022050700087167 (http://dx.doi.org/10.1017%
2FS0022050700087167).
27. ^ a b Bell, Spurgeon (1940). Productivity, Wages and National
Income , The Institute of Economics of the Brookings Institution
28. ^ [|Yergin, Daniel
(https://www.cera.com/aspx/cda/public1/about/expertise/personPopup.aspx?
iAuthorPK=112)] (1992). The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money $
Power.
29. ^ a b Beaudreau, Bernard C. (1996). Mass Production, the Stock
Market Crash and the Great Depression. New York, Lincoln,
Shanghi: Authors Choice Press.
30. ^ “Hours of Work in U.S. History
(http://eh.net/encyclopedia/article/whaples.work.hours.us)” (2010年).
2012年8月28日閲覧。
31. ^ Whaples, Robert (1991, June). The Shortening of the American
Work Week: An Economic and Historical Analysis of Its Context,
Causes, and Consequences, The Journal of Economic History, Vol.
51, No. 2; pp. 454-457
32. ^ “Technological Change and Economic Growth the Interwar Years
and the 1990s (http://www.econ.yale.edu/seminars/echist/eh04/field-
041006.pdf)” (2004年). 2012年8月28日閲覧。
33. ^ Hubbert, M. King (1940).
http://www.scribd.com/doc/22289589/Man-Hours-and-Distribution-
M-King-Hubbert Man Hours and Distribution , Derived from Man
Hours: A Declining Quantity, Technocracy, Series A, No. 8, August
1936 (http://www.)
34. ^ Jerome, Harry (1934). Mechanization in Industry, National Bureau
of Economic Research<For the several industries studied industry
expansion offset most of the productivity gains that would otherwise
resulted in many more job losses than actually occurred. To prevent
rising unemployment the laid off workers would have to have
changed industries, but it was noted that even if workers were
successful at such a change the time typically took 18 months or
more. The employment statistics for the 1930 census reflect
conditions after the start of the depression so the actual employment
situation prior to the depression is unknown.>
35. ^ Stiglitz, Joseph (2011), “The Book of
Jobs” (http://www.vanityfair.com/politics/2012/01/stiglitzdepression-
201201), Vanity Fair 23/12/2011閲覧。
36. ^ Ayres, R. U.; Ayres, L. W.; Warr, B. (2002). Exergy, Power and
Work in the U. S. Economy 1900-1998, Insead’s Center For the
Management of Environmental Resources, 2002/52/EPS/CMER
(http://terra2000.free.fr/downloads/expowork.pdf)<Fig. 4 in
Appendix>From one-sixth to one-quarter of all land had been used to
grow animal feed.
37. ^ General Motors and the Decline of Streetcars
(http://debunkportland.com/printables/TQOrigin.pdf)
38. ^ David M. Kennedy, 'Freedom From Fear, The American People in
Depression and War 1929 - 1945, Oxford University Press, 1999,
ISBN 0-19-503834-7, p. 122, 123
39. ^ Dorfman,1959
40. ^ Allgoewer, Elisabeth (May 2002). “Underconsumption theories and
Keynesian economics. Interpretations of the Great
Depression” (http://www.vwa.unisg.ch/RePEc/usg/dp2002/dp0214allgoewer_ganz.pdf).
Discussion paper no. 2002-14.
41. ^ Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA
1890–1954, Hodder Education, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p.
108
42. ^ Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA
1890–1954, Hodder Education, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p.
108
43. ^ The Road to Plenty (1928)
44. ^ Eichengreen 1992, p.xi
45. ^ Bernanke 2002, p.80
46. ^ Gold Standards and the Real Bills Doctrine in U.S. Monetary
Policy, RICHARD H. TIMBERLAKE
http://www.econjournalwatch.org/pdf/TimberlakeIntellectualTyrannyAugust2005.pdf
47. ^ Parker, p.49.
48. ^ White, 1990.
49. ^ Protectionism and the Great Depression
(http://krugman.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/11/30/protectionism-andthe-
great-depression/), Paul Krugman, New York Times, November
30, 2009
50. ^ a b The protectionist temptation: Lessons from the Great Depression
for today (http://voxeu.org/index.php?q=node/3280), VOX, Barry
Eichengreen, Douglas Irwin, 17 March 2009
51. ^ Hansen, Alvin (1939). Economic Progress and Declining
Population Growth. ISBN 978-1162557823<Originally printed in a
journal. Reprinted 2004, 2010>
52. ^ a b Barber, Clarence L. "On the Origins of the Great Depression",
Southern Economic Journal, January, 1978, 44(3), pp. 432-456.
53. ^ Barber, Clarence L. "On the Origins of the Great Depression",
Southern Economic Journal, January 1978, 44(3), pp. 432-456. See
also Bolch, B. W. and J. D. Pilgrim, "A Reappraisal of Some Factors
Associated with Fluctuations in the United States in the Interwar
Period." Southern Economic Journal, January 1973, pp. 327-44.
54. ^ Longman, Philip (2004). The Empty Cradle: How Falling
Birthrates Threaten World Prosperity And What to Do About It.
p. 87. ISBN 0-465-05050-6.
55. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 1
56. ^ White, Lawrence (2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the
Great Depression?”. Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751
–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x
(http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
57. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 1
58. ^ Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar
publishing, 2003, ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 9
59. ^ Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar
publishing, 2003, ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 9
60. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 1
61. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 33
62. ^ White, Lawrence (2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the
Great Depression?”. Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751
–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x
(http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
63. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 1
64. ^ White, Lawrence (2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the
Great Depression?”. Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751
–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x
(http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
65. ^ Lawrence White, The Clash of Economic Ideas: The Great Policy
Debates and Experiments of the 20th Century (Cambridge University
Press), p. 94.
66. ^ White, Clash of Economic Ideas, p. 94. See alsoWhite, Lawrence
(2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?”.
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751–768.
doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x (http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%
2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
67. ^ F. A. Hayek, interviewed by Diego Pizano July, 1979 published in:
Diego Pizano, Conversations with Great Economists: Friedrich A.
Hayek, John Hicks, Nicholas Kaldor, Leonid V. Kantorovich, Joan
Robinson, Paul A.Samuelson, Jan Tinbergen (Jorge Pinto Books,
2009).
68. ^ Herbert Hoover, Father of the New Deal, by Steven Horwitz
http://www.cato.org/pubs/bp/bp122.pdf
69. ^ Does ‘Austerity’ Work? by David Weinberger
http://blog.heritage.org/2011/10/27/does-austerity-work/
70. ^ Lessons from Economic Recessions II- The Forgotten Recession of
1920 http://conservativehideout.com/wordpress/2011/07/05/lessonsfrom-
economic-recessions-ii-the-forgotten-recession-of-1920/
71. ^ The Growth of the Federal Government in the 1920s, Randall G.
Holcombe http://www.cato.org/pubs/journal/cj16n2-2.html
72. ^ Hoover's Attack on Laissez-Faire, by Murray Rothbard
http://mises.org/daily/2902#2
73. ^ The Concise Encyclopedia of Economics: The Great Depression
http://www.econlib.org/library/Enc/GreatDepression.html
74. ^ http://www.cato.org/pubs/bp/bp122.pdf
参考文献
◾ Secular Stagnation and Great Depression, R. L. Norman, Jr. (http://www.secularstagnation.com)
◾ Dorfman, Joseph (1959). Economic Mind in American Civilizationvol 4 and 5 cover the ideas of all American economists of 1918-
1933.
◾ Friedman, Milton and Anna Jacobson Schwartz, A Monetary History of the United States, 1867-1960 (1963)
◾ Keen, Steve 2001. Debunking Economics Pluto Press Australia Limited Sydney, Australia
◾ Meltzer, Allan H. 2003 A History of the Federal Reserve Volume I: 1913-1951 Chicago University Press, Chicago, IL
◾ Rothbard, Murray N. 1963 America's Great Depression D. Van Nostrand Company, Princeton, NJ
◾ Rothbard, Murray N. A History of Money and Banking in the United States: The Colonial Era to World War II (2002)
◾ Samuelson, Paul (1948). Economics.
◾ White, Eugene N. "The Stock Market Boom and Crash of 1929 Revisited" Journal of Economic Perspectives, Vol. 4, No. 2 (Spring,
1990), pp. 67–83; examines different theories
関連文献
世界
◾ Ambrosius, G. and W. Hibbard. A Social and Economic History of Twentieth-Century Europe (1989)
◾ Bordo, Michael, and Anna J. Schwartz, eds. A Retrospective on the Classical Gold Standard, 1821–1931 (1984) (National Bureau of
Economic Research Conference Report)
◾ Bordo, Michael et al. eds. The Gold Standard and Related Regimes: Collected Essays (1999)
◾ Brown, Ian. The Economies of Africa and Asia in the Inter-War Depression (1989)
◾ Davis, Joseph S. The World Between the Wars, 1919-39: An Economist's View (1974)
◾ Eichengreen, Barry. Golden Fetters: The Gold Standard and the Great Depression, 1919–1939 (NBER Series on Long-Term Factors
in Economic Development), 1996, ISBN 0-19-510113-8
◾ Eichengreen, Barry, and Marc Flandreau, eds. The Gold Standard in Theory and History (1997)
◾ Feinstein, Charles H. The European Economy Between the Wars (1997)
◾ Garraty, John A. The Great Depression: An Inquiry into the Causes, Course, and Consequences of the Worldwide Depression of the
Nineteen-Thirties, as Seen by Contemporaries and in Light of History (1986)
◾ Garraty, John A. Unemployment in History (1978)
◾ Garside, William R. Capitalism in Crisis: International Responses to the Great Depression (1993)
◾ Haberler, Gottfried. The World Economy, Money, and the Great Depression 1919-1939 (1976)
◾ Hall, Thomas E. and J. David Ferguson. The Great Depression: An International Disaster of Perverse Economic Policies (1998)
◾ Kaiser, David E. Economic Diplomacy and the Origins of the Second World War: Germany, Britain, France and Eastern Europe,
1930-1939 (1980)
◾ Kindleberger, Charles P. The World in Depression, 1929-1939 (1983);
◾ Tipton, F. and R. Aldrich. An Economic and Social History of Europe, 1890–1939 (1987)
◾ Barber, Clarence Lyle (University of Manitoba) "On the Origins of the Great Depression" (1978)
アメリカ合衆国
◾ Ben S. Bernanke. Essays on the Great Depression (2000)
◾ Bernstein, Michael A. The Great Depression: Delayed Recovery and Economic Change in America, 1929-1939 (1989) focus on lowgrowth
and high-growth industries
◾ Bordo, Michael D., Claudia Goldin, and Eugene N. White, eds. The Defining Moment: The Great Depression and the American
Economy in the Twentieth Century (1998). Advanced economic history.
◾ Chandler, Lester. America's Greatest Depression (1970). economic history overview.
◾ De Long, Bradford. Liquidation Cycles and the Great Depression (1991)
◾ Jensen, Richard J. "The Causes and Cures of Unemployment in the Great Depression," Journal of Interdisciplinary History 19 (1989)
553-83. online at JSTOR in most academic libraries
◾ McElvaine, Robert S. The Great Depression (2nd ed 1993) social history
◾ Mitchell, Broadus. Depression Decade: From New Era through New Deal, 1929-1941 (1964), standard economic history overview.
◾ Parker, Randall E. Reflections on the Great Depression (2002) interviews with 11 leading economists
◾ Salsman, Richard M. “The Cause and Consequences of the Great Depression” in The Intellectual Activist, ISSN 0730-2355. Mr.
Salsman argues that the Great Depression was fundamentally caused by statist government policy.
◾ Singleton, Jeff. The American Dole: Unemployment Relief and the Welfare State in the Great Depression (2000)
(http://www.questia.com/PM.qst?a=o&d=24419587)
◾ Warren, Harris Gaylord. Herbert Hoover and the Great Depression (1959).
連邦準備制度の役割
◾ Chandler, Lester V. American Monetary Policy, 1928-41. (1971).
◾ Epstein, Gerald and Thomas Ferguson. "Monetary Policy, Loan Liquidation and Industrial Conflict: Federal Reserve System Open
Market Operations in 1932." Journal of Economic History 44 (December 1984): 957-84. in JSTOR
◾ Kubik, Paul J., "Federal Reserve Policy during the Great Depression: The Impact of Interwar Attitudes regarding Consumption and
Consumer Credit." Journal of Economic Issues. Vo: 30. Issue: 3. Publication Year: 1996. pp 829+.
◾ Mayhew, Anne. "Ideology and the Great Depression: Monetary History Rewritten." Journal of Economic Issues 17 (June 1983): 353-
60.
◾ Meltzer, Allan H. A History of the Federal Reserve, Volume 1: 1913-1951 (2004) the standard scholarly history
◾ Steindl, Frank G. Monetary Interpretations of the Great Depression. (1995).
◾ Temin, Peter. Did Monetary Forces Cause the Great Depression? (1976).
◾ Wicker, Elmus R. "A Reconsideration of Federal Reserve Policy during the 1920-1921 Depression," Journal of Economic History
(1966) 26: 223-238, in JSTOR
◾ Wicker, Elmus. Federal Reserve Monetary Policy, 1917-33. (1966).
◾ Wells, Donald R. The Federal Reserve System: A History (2004)
◾ Wueschner, Silvano A. Charting Twentieth-Century Monetary Policy: Herbert Hoover and Benjamin Strong, 1917-1927 Greenwood
Press. (1999)
Template:GreatDepr nav
「https://ja.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=世界恐慌の原因&oldid=60902860」から取得
カテゴリ: 翻訳中途 - 2016年2月1920年代世界恐慌経済恐慌金本位制出来事の原因
◾ 最終更新 2016年8月25日 (木) 17:12 （日時は個人設定で未設定ならばUTC）。
◾ テキストはクリエイティブ・コモンズ表示-継承ライセンスの下で利用可能です。追加の条件が適用される場合があります。
詳細は利用規約を参照してください。USA annual real GDP from 1910 to 1960, with the years of the Great
Depression (1929–39) highlighted
Money supply decreased a lot between Black Tuedsay and the Bank
Holiday in March 1933 when there was massive bank runs across the
United States.
Causes of the Great Depression
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
The causes of the Great Depression in the early 20th century have been extensively discussed
by economists and remain a matter of active debate. They are part of the larger debate about
economic crises.
The specific economic events that took place during the Great Depression have been studied
thoroughly: a deflation in asset and commodity prices, dramatic drops in demand and credit, and
disruption of trade, ultimately resulting in widespread unemployment (over 13 million people
were unemployed by 1932) and hence poverty. However, historians lack consensus in
determining the causal relationship between various events and the government economic policy
in causing or ameliorating the Depression. The initial stock market crash triggered a "panic selloff"
that made the stock market go even lower.
Although a common belief is that the Great Depression was triggered by the 1929 crash of the
stock market, the stock market in 1929 had reached record fundamental valuations in spite of
deteriorating economic conditions such as rising unemployment, overproduction (excess
capacity), underconsumption and high debt. The timing of the crash coincided with news that the
proposed import tariff on manufactured products was losing support in Congress.[1]
Current theories may be broadly classified into two main points of view and several heterodox
points of view.
First, there are demand-driven theories, from Keynesian and institutional economists who argue
that the depression was caused by a widespread loss of confidence that led to underconsumption.
The demand-driven theories argue that the financial crisis following the 1929 crash led to a
sudden and persistent reduction in consumption and investment spending.[2] Once panic and
deflation set in, many people believed they could avoid further losses by keeping clear of the
markets. Holding money therefore became profitable as prices dropped lower and a given amount
of money bought ever more goods, exacerbating the drop in demand.
Second, there are the monetarists, who believe that the Great Depression started as an ordinary
recession, but that significant policy mistakes by monetary authorities (especially the Federal
Reserve) caused a shrinking of the money supply which greatly exacerbated the economic
situation, causing a recession to descend into the Great Depression. Related to this explanation are those who point to debt deflation causing those who borrow to owe
ever more in real terms.
There are also various heterodox theories that reject the explanations of the Keynesians and monetarists. Some new classical macroeconomists have argued that
various labor market policies imposed at the start caused the length and severity of the Great Depression. The Austrian school of economics focuses on the
macroeconomic effects of money supply and how central banking decisions can lead to malinvestment. Marxian economists view the Great Depression, with all other
economic crises, as a symptom of the classism and instability inherent in the capitalist model.
Contents
◾ 1 General theoretical reasoning
◾ 1.1 Mainstream theories
◾ 1.1.1 Keynesian
◾ 1.1.2 Monetarist
◾ 1.1.3 Additional modern nonmonetary explanations
◾ 1.1.3.1 Debt deflation
◾ 1.1.3.2 Expectations hypothesis
◾ 1.2 Heterodox theories
◾ 1.2.1 Austrian School
◾ 1.2.2 Marxian
◾ 2 Specific theories of cause
◾ 2.1 Non-debt deflation
◾ 2.2 Productivity or technology shock
◾ 2.3 Disparities in wealth and income
◾ 2.4 Gold Standard system
◾ 2.5 Financial institution structures
◾ 2.6 Protectionism
◾ 2.7 International Debt Structure
◾ 2.8 Population dynamics
◾ 3 Role of economic policy
◾ 3.1 Calvin Coolidge (1923–29)
◾ 3.2 Leave-it-alone liquidationism (1929–33)
◾ 3.2.1 Overview
◾ 3.2.2 Criticism
◾ 3.3 Herbert Hoover (1929–33)
◾ 3.3.1 Economic policy
◾ 3.3.2 Federal spending
◾ 3.3.3 Tax policy
◾ 3.4 Franklin Delano Roosevelt (1933–45)
◾ 3.4.1 Arguments for key to recovery
◾ 3.4.2  for prolongation of the Great Depression
◾ 4 See also
◾ 5 Notes
◾ 6 References
The Great Depression in a monetary
view.
◾ 7 Further reading
◾ 7.1 World
◾ 7.2 United States
◾ 7.3 Role of the United States Federal Reserve
General theoretical reasoning
The two classical competing theories of the Great Depression are the Keynesian (demand-driven) and the monetarist explanation. There are also various heterodox
theories that downplay or reject the explanations of the Keynesians and monetarists.
Economists and economic historians are almost evenly split as to whether the traditional monetary explanation that monetary forces were the primary cause of the
Great Depression is right, or the traditional Keynesian explanation that a fall in autonomous spending, particularly investment, is the primary explanation for the
onset of the Great Depression.[3] Today44roversy is of lesser importance since there is mainstream support for the debt deflation theory and the expectations
hypothesis that building on the monetary explanation of Milton Friedman and Anna Schwartz add non-monetary explanations.
There is consensus that the Federal Reserve System should have cut short the process of monetary deflation and banking collapse. If the FED had done that the
economic downturn would have been far less severe and much shorter.[4]
Mainstream theories
Keynesian
In his book The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money (1936), British economist John Maynard Keynes introduced concepts that were intended to help
explain the Great Depression. He argued that there are reasons why the self-correcting mechanisms that many economists claimed should work during a downturn
might not work.
One argument for a non-interventionist policy during a recession was that if consumption fell due to savings, the savings would cause the rate of interest to fall.
According to the classical economists, lower interest rates would lead to increased investment spending and demand would remain constant. However, Keynes argues
that there are good reasons why investment does not necessarily increase in response to a fall in the interest rate. Businesses make investments based on expectations
of profit. Therefore, if a fall in consumption appears to be long-term, businesses analyzing trends will lower expectations of future sales. Therefore, the last thing they
are interested in doing is investing in increasing future production, even if lower interest rates make capital inexpensive. In that case, the economy can be thrown into
a general slump due to a decline in consumption.[5] According to Keynes, this self-reinforcing dynamic is what occurred to an extreme degree during the Depression,
where bankruptcies were common and investment, which requires a degree of optimism, was very unlikely to occur. This view is often characterized by economists
as being in opposition to Say's Law.
The idea that reduced capital investment was a cause of the depression is a central theme in Secular stagnation theory.
Keynes argued that if the national government spent more money to recover the money spent by consumers and business firms, unemployment rates would fall. The
solution was for the Federal Reserve System to “create new money for the national government to borrow and spend” and to cut taxes rather than raising them, in
order for consumers to spend more, and other beneficial factors.[6] Hoover chose to do the opposite of what Keynes thought to be the solution and allowed the federal
government to raise taxes exceedingly to reduce the budget shortage brought upon by the depression. Keynes proclaimed that more workers could be employed by
decreasing interest rates, encouraging firms to borrow more money and make more products. Employment would prevent the government from having to spend any
more money by increasing the amount at which consumers would spend. Keynes’ theory was then confirmed by the length of the Great Depression within the United
States and the constant unemployment rate. Employment rates began to rise in preparation for World War II by increasing government spending. “In light of these
developments, the Keynesian explanation of the Great Depression was increasingly accepted by economists, historians, and politicians”.[6]
Monetarist
In their 1963 book A Monetary History of the United States, 1867–1960, Milton Friedman and Anna Schwartz laid out their
case for a different explanation of the Great Depression. Essentially, the Great Depression, in their view, was caused by the
fall of the money supply. Friedman and Schwartz write: "From the cyclical peak in August 1929 to a cyclical trough in March
1933, the stock of money fell by over a third." The result was what Friedman calls the "Great Contraction" — a period of
falling income, prices, and employment caused by the choking effects of a restricted money supply. Friedman and Schwartz
argue that people wanted to hold more money than the Federal Reserve was supplying. As a result, people hoarded money by
consuming less. This caused a contraction in employment and production since prices were not flexible enough to
immediately fall. The Fed's failure was in not realizing what was happening and not taking corrective action.[7]
After the Depression, the primary explanations of it tended to ignore the importance of the money supply. However, in the
monetarist view, the Depression was “in fact a tragic testimonial to the importance of monetary forces.”[8] In their view, the
failure of the Federal Reserve to deal with the Depression was not a sign that monetary policy was impotent, but that the
Federal Reserve implemented the wrong policies. They did not claim the Fed caused the depression, only that it failed to use
policies that might have stopped a recession from turning into a depression.
The U.S. economy during this period went through a number of cycles of boom and bust. The depressions often seemed to be set off by bank panics, the most
significant occurring in 1873, 1893, 1901, 1907, and 1920.[9] Before the 1913 establishment of the Federal Reserve, the banking system had dealt with these crises in
the U.S. (such as in the Panic of 1907) by suspending the convertibility of deposits into currency. Starting in 1893, there were growing efforts by financial institutions
and business men to intervene during these crises, providing liquidity to banks that were suffering runs. During the banking panic of 1907, an ad-hoc coalition
assembled by J. P. Morgan successfully intervened in this way, thereby cutting off the panic, which was likely the reason why the depression that would normally
have followed a banking panic did not happen this time. A call by some for a government version of this solution resulted in the establishment of the Federal Reserve.
[10]
But in 1928–32, the Federal Reserve did not act to provide liquidity to banks suffering runs. In fact, its policy contributed to the banking crisis by permitting a sudden
contraction of the money supply. During the Roaring Twenties, the central bank had set as its primary goal "price stability", in part because the governor of the New
York Federal Reserve, Benjamin Strong, was a disciple of Irving Fisher, a tremendously popular economist who popularized stable prices as a monetary goal. It had
kept the number of dollars at such an amount that prices of goods in society appeared stable. In 1928, Strong died, and with his death this policy ended, to be replaced
with a real bills doctrine requiring that all currency or securities have material goods backing them. This policy permitted the US money supply to fall by over a third
from 1929 to 1933.[11]
Crowd at New York's American Union
Bank during a bank run early in the Great
Depression.
Crowd gathering on Wall Street after the
1929 crash.
When this money shortage caused runs on banks, the Fed maintained its true bills policy, refusing to lend money to the banks in the way that had cut short the 1907
panic, instead allowing each to suffer a catastrophic run and fail entirely. This policy resulted in a series of bank failures in which one-third of all banks vanished.[12]
According to Ben Bernanke, the subsequent credit crunches led to waves of bankruptcies.[13] Friedman said that if a policy similar to 1907 had been followed during
the banking panic at the end of 1930, perhaps this would have stopped the vicious circle of the forced liquidation of assets at depressed prices. Consequently, the
banking panics of 1931, 1932, and 1933 might not have happened, just as suspension of convertibility in 1893 and 1907 had quickly ended the liquidity crises at the
time.”[14]
Monetarist explanations had been rejected in Samuelson's work Economics, writing "Today few economists regard Federal Reserve monetary policy as a panacea for
controlling the business cycle. Purely monetary factors are considered to be as much symptoms as causes, albeit symptoms with aggravating effects that should not be
completely neglected."[15] According to Keynesian economist Paul Krugman, the work of Friedman and Schwartz became dominant among mainstream economists
by the 1980s but should be reconsidered in light of Japan's Lost Decade of the 1990s.[16] The role of monetary policy in financial crises is in active debate regarding
the 2007–12 global financial crisis; see Causes of the 2007–12 global financial crisis.
Additional modern nonmonetary explanations
The monetary explanation has two weaknesses. First it is not able to explain why the demand for money was falling more rapidly than the supply during the initial
downturn in 1930-31.[17] Second it is not able to explain why in March 1933 a recovery took place although short term interest rates remained close to zero and the
Money supply was still falling. These questions are addressed by modern explanations that build on the monetary explanation of Milton Friedman and Anna
Schwartz but add non-monetary explanations.
Debt deflation
Total debt to GDP levels in the U.S. reached a high of just under 300% by the time of the Depression. This level of debt was
not exceeded again until near the end of the 20th century.[18]
Jerome (1934) gives an unattributed quote about finance conditions that allowed the great industrial expansion of the post
WW I period:
Probably never before in this country had such a volume of funds been available at such low rates for such a long
period.[19]
Furthermore, Jerome says that the volume of new capital issues increased at a 7.7% compounded annual rate from 1922
–29 at a time when the Standard Statistics Co.'s index of 60 high grade bonds yielded from 4.98% in 1923 to 4.47% in
1927.
There was also a real estate and housing bubble in the 1920s, especially in Florida, which burst in 1925. Alvin Hansen
stated that housing construction during the 1920s decade exceeded population growth by 25%.[20] See also:Florida land
boom of the 1920s
Irving Fisher argued that the predominant factor leading to the Great Depression was over-indebtedness and deflation.
Fisher tied loose credit to over-indebtedness, which fueled speculation and asset bubbles.[21] He then outlined nine factors
interacting with one another under conditions of debt and deflation to create the mechanics of boom to bust. The chain of
events proceeded as follows:
1. Debt liquidation and distress selling
2. Contraction of the money supply as bank loans are paid off
3. A fall in the level of asset prices
4. A still greater fall in the net worths of business, precipitating bankruptcies
5. A fall in profits
6. A reduction in output, in trade and in employment.
7. Pessimism and loss of confidence
8. Hoarding of money
9. A fall in nominal interest rates and a rise in deflation adjusted interest rates.[21]
During the Crash of 1929 preceding the Great Depression, margin requirements were only 10%.[22] Brokerage firms, in
other words, would lend $90 for every $10 an investor had deposited. When the market fell, brokers called in these loans,
which could not be paid back. Banks began to fail as debtors defaulted on debt and depositors attempted to withdraw
their deposits en masse, triggering multiple bank runs. Government guarantees and Federal Reserve banking regulations
to prevent such panics were ineffective or not used. Bank failures led to the loss of billions of dollars in assets.[23]
Outstanding debts became heavier, because prices and incomes fell by 20–50% but the debts remained at the same dollar
amount. After the panic of 1929, and during the first 10 months of 1930, 744 US banks failed. (In all, 9,000 banks failed
during the 1930s). By April 1933, around $7 billion in deposits had been frozen in failed banks or those left unlicensed
after the March Bank Holiday.[24]
Bank failures snowballed as desperate bankers called in loans, which the borrowers did not have time or money to repay.
With future profits looking poor, capital investment and construction slowed or completely ceased. In the face of bad
loans and worsening future prospects, the surviving banks became even more conservative in their lending.[23] Banks
built up their capital reserves and made fewer loans, which intensified deflationary pressures. A vicious cycle developed
and the downward spiral accelerated.
The liquidation of debt could not keep up with the fall of prices it caused. The mass effect of the stampede to liquidate increased the value of each dollar owed,
relative to the value of declining asset holdings. The very effort of individuals to lessen their burden of debt effectively increased it. Paradoxically, the more the
debtors paid, the more they owed.[21] This self-aggravating process turned a 1930 recession into a 1933 great depression.
Fisher's debt-deflation theory initially lacked mainstream influence because of the counter-argument that debt-deflation represented no more than a redistribution
from one group (debtors) to another (creditors). Pure re-distributions should have no significant macroeconomic effects.
Building on both the monetary hypothesis of Milton Friedman and Anna Schwartz as well as the debt deflation hypothesis of Irving Fisher, Ben Bernanke developed
an alternative way in which the financial crisis affected output. He builds on Fisher's argument that dramatic declines in the price level and nominal incomes lead to
increasing real debt burdens which in turn leads to debtor insolvency and consequently leads to lowered aggregate demand, a further decline in the price level then
results in a debt deflationary spiral. According to Bernanke, a small decline in the price level simply reallocates wealth from debtors to creditors without doing
damage to the economy. But when the deflation is severe falling asset prices along with debtor bankruptcies lead to a decline in the nominal value of assets on bank
balance sheets. Banks will react by tightening their credit conditions, that in turn leads to a credit crunch which does serious harm to the economy. A credit crunch
lowers investment and consumption and results in declining aggregate demand which additionally contributes to the deflationary spiral.[25][26][27]
Economist Steve Keen revived the Debt-Reset Theory after he accurately predicted the 2008 recession based on his analysis of the Great Depression, and recently
advised Congress to engage in debt-forgiveness or direct payments to citizens in order to avoid future financial events.[28] Some people support the Debt-Reset
Theory.[29][30][31]
Expectations hypothesis
Expectations have been a central element of macroeconomic models since the economic mainstream accepted the new neoclassical synthesis. While not rejecting that
it was inadequate demand that sustained the depression, according to Peter Temin, Barry Wigmore, Gauti B. Eggertsson and Christina Romer the key to recovery and
the end of the Great Depression was the successful management of public expectations. This thesis is based on the observation that after years of deflation and a very
severe recession, important economic indicators turned positive in March 1933, just as Franklin D. Roosevelt took office. Consumer prices turned from deflation to a
mild inflation, industrial production bottomed out in March 1933, investment doubled in 1933 with a turnaround in March 1933. There were no monetary forces to
explain that turnaround. Money supply was still falling and short term interest rates remained close to zero. Before March 1933, people expected a further deflation
and recession so that even interest rates at zero did not stimulate investment. But when Roosevelt announced major regime changes people began to expect inflation
and an economic expansion. With those expectations, interest rates at zero began to stimulate investment as planned. Roosevelt's fiscal and monetary policy regime
change helped to make his policy objectives credible. The expectation of higher future income and higher future inflation stimulated demand and investments. The
analysis suggests that the elimination of the policy dogmas of the gold standard, a balanced budget in times of crises and small government led endogenously to a
large shift in expectation that accounts for about 70–80 percent of the recovery of output and prices from 1933 to 1937. If the regime change had not happened and
the Hoover policy had continued, the economy would have continued its free fall in 1933, and output would have been 30 percent lower in 1937 than in 1933.
[32][33][34]
The recession of 1937–38, which slowed down economic recovery from the great depression, is explained by fears of the population that the moderate tightening of
the monetary and fiscal policy in 1937 would be first steps to a restoration of the pre March 1933 policy regime.[35]
Heterodox theories
Austrian School
Austrian economists argue that the Great Depression was the inevitable outcome of the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve during the 1920s. In their opinion,
the central bank's policy was an "easy credit policy" which led to an unsustainable credit-driven boom. In the Austrian view, the inflation of the money supply during
this period led to an unsustainable boom in both asset prices (stocks and bonds) and capital goods. By the time the Federal Reserve belatedly tightened monetary
policy in 1928, it was too late to avoid a significant economic contraction.[36] Austrians argue that government intervention after the crash of 1929 delayed the
market’s adjustment and made the road to complete recovery more difficult.[37][38]
Acceptance of the Austrian explanation of what primarily caused the Great Depression is compatible with either acceptance or denial of the Monetarist explanation.
Austrian economist Murray Rothbard, who wrote America's Great Depression (1963), rejected the Monetarist explanation. He criticized Milton Friedman's assertion
that the central bank failed to sufficiently increase the supply of money, claiming instead that the Federal Reserve did pursue an inflationary policy when, in 1932, it
purchased $1.1 billion of government securities, which raised its total holding to $1.8 billion. Rothbard says that despite the central bank's policies, "total bank
reserves only rose by $212 million, while the total money supply fell by $3 billion". The reason for this, he argues, is that the American populace lost faith in the
banking system and began hoarding more cash, a factor very much beyond the control of the Central Bank. The potential for a run on the banks caused local bankers
to be more conservative in lending out their reserves, which, according to Rothbard's argument, was the cause of the Federal Reserve's inability to inflate.[39]
Friedrich Hayek had criticised the FED and the Bank of England in the 1930s for not taking a more contractionary stance.[40] However, in 1975, Hayek admitted that
he made a mistake in the 1930s in not opposing the Central Bank's deflationary policy and stated the reason why he had been ambivalent: "At that time I believed that
a process of deflation of some short duration might break the rigidity of wages which I thought was incompatible with a functioning economy.[41] In 1978, he made it
clear that he agreed with the point of view of the Monetarists, saying, "I agree with Milton Friedman that once the Crash had occurred, the Federal Reserve System
pursued a silly deflationary policy", and that he was as opposed to deflation as he was to inflation.[42] Concordantly, economist Lawrence White argues that the
business cycle theory of Hayek is inconsistent with a monetary policy which permits a severe contraction of the money supply.
Hans Sennholz argued that most boom and busts that plagued the American economy in 1819-20, 1839–43, 1857–60, 1873–78, 1893–97, and 1920–21, were
generated by government creating a boom through easy money and credit, which was soon followed by the inevitable bust. The spectacular crash of 1929 followed
five years of reckless credit expansion by the Federal Reserve System under the Coolidge Administration. The passing of the Sixteenth Amendment, the passage of
The Federal Reserve Act, rising government deficits, the passage of the Hawley-Smoot Tariff Act, and the Revenue Act of 1932, exacerbated the crisis, prolonging it.
[43]
Marxian
Marxists generally argue that the Great Depression was the result of the inherent instability of the capitalist model.[44]
Specific theories of cause
Non-debt deflation
In addition to the debt deflation there was a component of productivity deflation that had been occurring since The Great Deflation of the last quarter of the 19th
century.[45] There may have also been a continuation of the correction to the sharp inflation caused by WW I.
Oil prices reached their all-time low in the early 1930s as production began from the East Texas Oil Field, the largest field ever found in the lower 48 states. With the
oil market oversupplied prices locally fell to below ten cents per barrel.[46]
Productivity or technology shock
In the first three decades of the 20th century productivity and economic output surged due in part to electrification, mass production and the increasing motorization
of transportation and farm machinery. Electrification and mass production techniques such as Fordism permanently lowered the demand for labor relative to
economic output.[1][47] By the late 1920s the resultant rapid growth in productivity and investment in manufacturing meant there was a considerable excess production
capacity.[48]
Sometime after the peak of the business cycle in 1923, more workers were displaced by productivity improvements than growth in the employment market could
meet, causing unemployment to slowly rise after 1925.[49] [1] Also, the work week fell slightly in the decade prior to the depression.[50][51][52] Wages did not keep up
with productivity growth, which led to the problem of underconsumption.[1]
Henry Ford and Edward A. Filene were among prominent businessmen who were concerned with overproduction and underconsumption. Ford doubled wages of his
workers in 1914. The over-production problem was also discussed in Congress, with Senator Reed Smoot proposing an import tariff, which became the Smoot
–Hawley Tariff Act. The Smoot–Hawley Tariff was enacted in June, 1930. The tariff was misguided because the U.S. had been running a trade account surplus
during the 1920s.[1]
Another effect of rapid technological change was that after 1910 the rate of capital investment slowed, primarily due to reduced investment in business structures.[47]
The depression led to additional large numbers of plant closings.[19]
It cannot be emphasized too strongly that the [productivity, output and employment] trends we are describing are long-time trends and were thoroughly
evident prior to 1929. These trends are in nowise the result of the present depression, nor are they the result of the World War. On the contrary, the
present depression is a collapse resulting from these long-term trends. — M. King Hubbert[53]
In the book Mechanization in Industry, whose publication was sponsored by the National Bureau of Economic Research, Jerome (1934) noted that whether
mechanization tends to increase output or displace labor depends on the elasticity of demand for the product.[19] In addition, reduced costs of production were not
always passed on to consumers. It was further noted that agriculture was adversely affected by the reduced need for animal feed as horses and mules were displaced
by inanimate sources of power following WW I. As a related point, Jerome also notes that the term "technological unemployment" was being used to describe the
labor situation during the depression.[19]
Some portion of the increased unemployment which characterized the post-War years in the United States may be attributed to the mechanization of
industries producing commodities of inelastic demand. — Fredrick C. Wells, 1934[19]
The dramatic rise in productivity of major industries in the U. S. and the effects of productivity on output, wages and the work week are discussed by a Brookings
Institution sponsored book.[45]
Corporations decided to lay off workers and reduced the amount of raw materials they purchased to manufacture their products. This decision was made to cut the
production of goods because of the amount of products that were not being sold.[6]
Joseph Stiglitz and Bruce Greenwald suggested that it was a productivity-shock in agriculture, through fertilizers, mechanization and improved seed, that caused the
drop in agricultural product prices. Farmers were forced off the land, further adding to the excess labor supply.[54]
The prices of agricultural products began to decline after WW I and eventually many farmers were forced out of business, causing the failure of hundreds of small
rural banks. Agricultural productivity resulting from tractors, fertilizers and hybrid corn was only part of the problem; the other problem was the change over from
horses and mules to internal combustion transportation. The horse and mule population began declining after WW 1, freeing up enormous quantities of land
previously used for animal feed.[19][55][56]
The rise of the internal combustion engine and increasing numbers of motorcars and buses also halted the growth of electric street railways.[57]
The years 1929 to 1941 had the highest total factor productivity growth in the history of the U. S., largely due to the productivity increases in public utilities,
transportation and trade.[58]
Disparities in wealth and income
Economists such as Waddill Catchings, William Trufant Foster, Rexford Tugwell, Adolph Berle (and later John Kenneth Galbraith), popularized a theory that had
some influence on Franklin D. Roosevelt.[59] This theory held that the economy produced more goods than consumers could purchase, because the consumers did not
have enough income.[60][61][62] According to this view, in the 1920s wages had increased at a lower rate than productivity growth, which had been high. Most of the
benefit of the increased productivity went into profits, which went into the stock market bubble rather than into consumer purchases. Thus workers did not have
enough income to absorb the large amount of capacity that had been added.[1]
According to this view, the root cause of the Great Depression was a global overinvestment while the level of wages and earnings from independent businesses fell
short of creating enough purchasing power. It was argued that government should intervene by an increased taxation of the rich to help make income more equal.
With the increased revenue the government could create public works to increase employment and ‘kick start’ the economy. In the USA the economic policies had
been quite the opposite until 1932. The Revenue Act of 1932 and public works programmes introduced in Hoover's last year as president and taken up by Roosevelt,
created some redistribution of purchasing power.[62][63]
The stock market crash made it evident that banking systems Americans were relying on were not dependable. Americans looked towards insubstantial banking units
for their own liquidity supply. As the economy began to fail, these banks were no longer able to support those who depended on their assets – they did not hold as
much power as the larger banks. During the depression, “three waves of bank failures shook the economy.”[64] The first wave came just when the economy was
heading in the direction of recovery at the end of 1930 and the beginning of 1931. The second wave of bank failures occurred “after the Federal Reserve System
raised the rediscount rate to staunch an outflow of gold”[64] around the end of 1931. The last wave, which began in the middle of 1932, was the worst and most
devastating, continuing “almost to the point of a total breakdown of the banking system in the winter of 1932–1933.”[64] The reserve banks led the United States into
an even deeper depression between 1931 and 1933, due to their failure to appreciate and put to use the powers they withheld – capable of creating money – as well as
the “inappropriate monetary policies pursued by them during these years”.[64]
Gold Standard system
New York stock market index
According to the gold standard theory of the Depression, the Depression was largely caused by the decision of most western nations after World War I to return to the
gold standard at the pre-war gold price. Monetary policy, according to this view, was thereby put into a deflationary setting that would over the next decade slowly
grind away at the health of many European economies.
This post-war policy was preceded by an inflationary policy during World War I, when many European nations abandoned the gold standard, forced by the enormous
costs of the war. This resulted in inflation because the supply of new money that was created was spent on war, not on investments in productivity to increase demand
that would have neutralized inflation. The view is that the quantity of new money introduced largely determines the inflation rate, and therefore, the cure to inflation
is to reduce the amount of new currency created for purposes that are destructive or wasteful, and do not lead to economic growth.
After the war, when America and the nations of Europe went back on the gold standard, most nations decided to return to the gold standard at the pre-war price.
When Britain, for example, passed the Gold Standard Act of 1925, thereby returning Britain to the gold standard, the critical decision was made to set the new price
of the Pound Sterling at parity with the pre-war price even though the pound was then trading on the foreign exchange market at a much lower price. At the time, this
action was criticized by John Maynard Keynes and others, who argued that in so doing, they were forcing a revaluation of wages without any tendency to
equilibrium. Keynes' criticism of Winston Churchill's form of the return to the gold standard implicitly compared it to the consequences of the Treaty of Versailles.
One of the reasons for setting the currencies at parity with the pre-war price was the prevailing opinion at that time that deflation was not a danger, while inflation,
particularly the inflation in the Weimar Republic, was an unbearable danger. Another reason was that those who had loaned in nominal amounts hoped to recover the
same value in gold that they had lent. Because of the reparations that Germany had to pay France, Germany began a credit-fueled period of growth in order to export
and sell enough goods abroad to gain gold to pay the reparations. The U.S., as the world's gold sink, loaned money to Germany to industrialize, which was then the
basis for Germany paying back France, and France paying back loans to the U.K. and the U.S. This arrangement was codified in the Dawes Plan.
In some cases, deflation can be hard on sectors of the economy such as agriculture, if they are deeply in debt at high interest rates and are unable to refinance, or that
are dependent upon loans to finance capital goods when low interest rates are not available. Deflation erodes the price of commodities while increasing the real
liability of debt. Deflation is beneficial to those with assets in cash, and to those who wish to invest or purchase assets or loan money.
More recent research, by economists such as Peter Temin, Ben Bernanke and Barry Eichengreen, has focused on the constraints policy makers were under at the time
of the Depression. In this view, the constraints of the inter-war gold standard magnified the initial economic shock and were a significant obstacle to any actions that
would ameliorate the growing Depression. According to them, the initial destabilizing shock may have originated with the Wall Street Crash of 1929 in the U.S., but
it was the gold standard system that transmitted the problem to the rest of the world.[65]
According to their conclusions, during a time of crisis, policy makers may have wanted to loosen monetary and fiscal policy, but such action would threaten the
countries’ ability to maintain their obligation to exchange gold at its contractual rate. The gold standard required countries to maintain high interest rates to attract
international investors who bought foreign assets with gold. Therefore, governments had their hands tied as the economies collapsed, unless they abandoned their
currency’s link to gold. Fixing the exchange rate of all countries on the gold standard ensured that the market for foreign exchange can only equilibrate through
interest rates. As the Depression worsened, many countries started to abandon the gold standard, and those that abandoned it earlier suffered less from deflation and
tended to recover more quickly.[66]
Richard Timberlake, economist of the free banking school and protégé of Milton Friedman, specifically addressed this stance in his paper Gold Standards and the
Real Bills Doctrine in U.S. Monetary Policy, wherein he argued that the Federal Reserve actually had plenty of lee-way under the gold standard, as had been
demonstrated by the price stability policy of New York Fed governor Benjamin Strong, between 1923 and 1928. But when Strong died in late 1928, the faction that
took over dominance of the Fed advocated a real bills doctrine, where all money had to be represented by physical goods. This policy, forcing a 30% deflation of the
dollar that inevitably damaged the US economy, is stated by Timberlake as being arbitrary and avoidable, the existing gold standard having been capable of
continuing without it:
This shift in control was decisive. In accordance with the precedent Strong had set in promoting a stable price level policy without heed to any golden fetters,
real bills proponents could proceed equally unconstrained in implementing their policy ideal. System policy in 1928–29 consequently shifted from price level
stabilization to passive real bills. “The” gold standard remained where it had been—nothing but formal window dressing waiting for an opportune time to
reappear.[67]
Financial institution structures
Economic historians (especially Friedman and Schwartz) emphasize the importance of numerous
bank failures. The failures were mostly in rural America. Structural weaknesses in the rural
economy made local banks highly vulnerable. Farmers, already deeply in debt, saw farm prices
plummet in the late 1920s and their implicit real interest rates on loans skyrocket.
Their land was already over-mortgaged (as a result of the 1919 bubble in land prices), and crop
prices were too low to allow them to pay off what they owed. Small banks, especially those tied to
the agricultural economy, were in constant crisis in the 1920s with their customers defaulting on
loans because of the sudden rise in real interest rates; there was a steady stream of failures among
these smaller banks throughout the decade.
The city banks also suffered from structural weaknesses that made them vulnerable to a shock.
Some of the nation's largest banks were failing to maintain adequate reserves and were investing
heavily in the stock market or making risky loans. Loans to Germany and Latin America by New
York City banks were especially risky. In other words, the banking system was not well prepared
to absorb the shock of a major recession.
Economists have argued that a liquidity trap might have contributed to bank failures.
Economists and historians debate how much responsibility to assign the Wall Street Crash of 1929. The timing was right; the magnitude of the shock to expectations
of future prosperity was high. Most analysts believe the market in 1928–29 was a "bubble" with prices far higher than justified by fundamentals. Economists agree
that somehow it shared some blame, but how much no one has estimated. Milton Friedman concluded, "I don't doubt for a moment that the collapse of the stock
market in 1929 played a role in the initial recession".[68]
The idea of owning government bonds initially became ideal to investors when Liberty Loan drives encouraged this possession in America during World War I. This
strive for dominion persisted into the 1920s. After World War I, the United States became the world’s creditor and was depended upon by many foreign nations.
“Governments from around the globe looked to Wall Street for loans”.[69] Investors then started to depend on these loans for further investments. Chief counsel of the
Senate Bank Committee, Ferdinand Pecora, disclosed that National City executives were also dependent on loans from a special bank fund as a safety net for their
stock losses while American banker, Albert Wiggin, “made millions selling short his own bank shares”.[69]
Economist David Hume stated that the economy became imbalanced as the recession spread on an international scale. The cost of goods remained too high for too
long during a time where there was less international trade. Policies set in selected countries to “maintain the value of their currency” resulted in an outcome of bank
failures.[70] Governments that continued to follow the gold standard were led into bank failure, meaning that it was the governments and central bankers that
contributed as a stepping stool into the depression.
The debate has three sides: one group says the crash caused the depression by drastically lowering expectations about the future and by removing large sums of
investment capital; a second group says the economy was slipping since summer 1929 and the crash ratified it; the third group says that in either scenario the crash
could not have caused more than a recession. There was a brief recovery in the market into April 1930, but prices then started falling steadily again from there, not
reaching a final bottom until July 1932. This was the largest long-term U.S. market decline by any measure. To move from a recession in 1930 to a deep depression
in 1931–32, entirely different factors had to be in play.[71]
Protectionism
Protectionism, such as the Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act, is often indicted as a cause of the Great Depression, with countries enacting protectionist policies yielding a
beggar thy neighbor result.[72][73] The Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act was especially harmful to agriculture because it caused farmers to default on their loans. This event
may have worsened or even caused the ensuing bank runs in the Midwest and West that caused the collapse of the banking system. A petition signed by over 1,000
economists was presented to the U.S. government warning that the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act would bring disastrous economic repercussions; however, this did not
stop the act from being signed into law.
Governments around the world took various steps into spending less money on foreign goods such as: “imposing tariffs, import quotas, and exchange
controls” (Eichengreen, B.). These restrictions formed a lot of tension between trade nations, causing a major deduction during the depression. Not all countries
enforced the same measures of protectionism. Some countries raised tariffs drastically and enforced severe restrictions on foreign exchange transactions, while other
countries condensed “trade and exchange restrictions only marginally”.[74]
“Countries that remained on the gold standard, keeping currencies fixed, were more likely to restrict foreign trade.” These countries became more competitive and
“resorted to protectionist policies to strengthen the balance of payments and limit gold losses.” They hoped that these restrictions and depletions would lead them
towards economic recovery. On the other hand, countries that chose to alleviate the gold standard, allowing fluidity in their currencies, experienced economic
recovery and “benefited from gold inflows”.[74]
There were three options left that could lead economies back to recovery. These options were: “wage and price deflation to restore external and internal balance at the
current gold parity; trade and payments restrictions to limit spending on imports and reduce gold outflows; or abandoning the gold standard and allowing the
exchange rate to depreciate”.[74]
Some economists argue that protectionism was not a cause but a reaction to the depression,[73] with protectionism policies being adopted by countries holding to the
gold standard rather than having floating exchange rates: countries on the gold standard could not cut interest rates or act as lender of last resort because they would
run out of gold, while countries off the gold standard could cut interest rates and print fiat money. In this interpretation, protectionism served to change the terms of
trade for countries whose monetary policy was constrained by the gold standard.
International Debt Structure
When the war came to an end in 1918, all European nations that had been allied with the U.S. owed large sums of money to American banks, sums much too large to
be repaid out of their shattered treasuries. This is one reason why the Allies had insisted (to the consternation of Woodrow Wilson) on demanding reparation
payments from Germany and Austria–Hungary. Reparations, they believed, would provide them with a way to pay off their own debts. However, Germany and
Austria-Hungary were themselves in deep economic trouble after the war; they were no more able to pay the reparations than the Allies were able to pay their debts.
The debtor nations put strong pressure on the U.S. in the 1920s to forgive the debts, or at least reduce them. The American government refused. Instead, U.S. banks
began making large loans to the nations of Europe. Thus, debts (and reparations) were being paid only by augmenting old debts and piling up new ones. In the late
1920s, and particularly after the American economy began to weaken after 1929, the European nations found it much more difficult to borrow money from the U.S.
At the same time, high U.S. tariffs were making it much more difficult for them to sell their goods in U.S. markets. Without any source of revenue from foreign
exchange to repay their loans, they began to default.
Beginning late in the 1920s, European demand for U.S. goods began to decline. That was partly because European industry and agriculture were becoming more
productive, and partly because some European nations (most notably Weimar Germany) were suffering serious financial crises and could not afford to buy goods
overseas. However, the central issue causing the destabilization of the European economy in the late 1920s was the international debt structure that had emerged in
the aftermath of World War I.
The high tariff walls such as the Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act critically impeded the payment of war debts. As a result of high U.S. tariffs, only a sort of cycle kept the
reparations and war-debt payments going. During the 1920s, the former allies paid the war-debt installments to the U.S. chiefly with funds obtained from German
reparations payments, and Germany was able to make those payments only because of large private loans from the U.S. and Britain. Similarly, U.S. investments
abroad provided the dollars, which alone made it possible for foreign nations to buy U.S. exports.
The Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act was instituted by Senator Reed Smoot and Representative Willis C. Hawley, and signed into law by President Hoover, to raise taxes on
American imports by about 20 percent during June 1930. This tax, which aided towards the exceedingly damaged American income and overproduction, was only
beneficial towards the Americans in having to spend less on foreign goods. In contrast, European trading nations frowned upon this tax increase, particularly since
the “United States was an international creditor and exports to the U.S. market were already declining”.[74] In response to the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act, some of
America’s primary producers and largest trading partner, Canada, chose to seek retribution by increasing the financial value of imported goods favoured by the
Americans.
In the scramble for liquidity that followed the 1929 stock market crash, funds flowed back from Europe to America, and Europe's fragile economies crumbled.
By 1931, the world was reeling from the worst depression of recent memory, and the entire structure of reparations and war debts collapsed.
Population dynamics
In 1939, prominent economist Alvin Hansen discussed the decline in population growth in relation to the Depression.[75] The same idea was discussed in a 1978
journal article by Clarence Barber, an economist at the University of Manitoba. Using "a form of the Harrod model" to analyze the Depression, Barber states:
In such a model, one would look for the origins of a serious depression in conditions which produced a decline in Harrod's natural rate of growth, more
specifically, in a decline in the rate of population and labour force growth and in the rate of growth of productivity or technical progress, to a level below
the warranted rate of growth.[76]
The Great Depression in an international context.
Barber says, while there is "no clear evidence" of a decline in "the rate of growth of productivity" during the 1920s, there is "clear evidence" the population growth
rate began to decline during that same period. He argues the decline in population growth rate may have caused a decline in "the natural rate of growth" which was
significant enough to cause a serious depression.[76]
Barber says a decline in the population growth rate is likely to affect the demand for housing, and claims this is apparently what happened during the 1920s. He
concludes:
the rapid and very large decline in the rate of growth of non-farm households was clearly the major reason for the decline that occurred in residential
construction in the United States from 1926 on. And this decline, as Bolch and Pilgrim have claimed, may well have been the most important single
factor in turning the 1929 downturn into a major depression.[77]
The decline in housing construction that can be attributed to demographics has been estimated to range from 28% in 1933 to 38% in 1940.[78]
Among the causes of the decline in the population growth rate during the 1920s were a declining birth rate after 1910[79] and reduced immigration. The decline in
immigration was largely the result of legislation in the 1920s placing greater restrictions on immigration. In 1921, Congress passed the Emergency Quota Act,
followed by the Immigration Act of 1924.
Factors that majorly contributed to the failing of the economy since 1925, was a decrease in both residential and non-residential buildings being constructed. It was
the debt as a result of the war, less families being formed, and an imbalance of mortgage payments and loans in 1928–29 that mainly contributed to the decline in the
amount of houses being built. This caused the populate growth rate to decelerate. Though non-residential units continued to be built “at a high rate throughout the
decade”, the demands for such units were actually very low[64]
Role of economic policy
Calvin Coolidge (1923–29)
There is an ongoing debate between historians as to what extent President Calvin Coolidge's laissez-faire hands-off attitude has contributed to the Great Depression.
Despite a growing rate of bank failures he did not heed voices that predicted the lack of banking regulation as potentially dangerous. He did not listen to members of
Congress warning that stock speculation had gone too far and he ignored criticisms that workers did not participate sufficiently in the prosperity of the Roaring
Twenties.[80]
Leave-it-alone liquidationism (1929–33)
Overview
From the point of view of today's mainstream schools of economic thought, government
should strive to keep some broad nominal aggregate on a stable growth path (for
proponents of new classical macroeconomics and monetarism, the measure is the nominal
money supply; for Keynesian economists it is the nominal aggregate demand itself).
During a depression the central bank should pour liquidity into the banking system and the
government should cut taxes and accelerate spending in order to keep the nominal money
stock and total nominal demand from collapsing.[81]
The United States government and the Federal Reserve did not do that during the 1929-32
slide into the Great Depression[81] The existence of "liquidationism" played a key part in
motivating public policy decisions not to fight the gathering Great Depression. An
increasingly common view among economic historians is that the adherence of some
Federal Reserve policymakers to the liquidationist thesis led to disastrous consequences.
[82] Regarding the policies of President Hoover, economists Barry Eichengreen and J.
Bradford DeLong point out that the Hoover administration’s fiscal policy was guided by
liquidationist economists and policy makers, as Hoover tried to keep the federal budget
balanced until 1932, when Hoover lost confidence in his Secretary of the Treasury
Andrew Mellon and replaced him.[83][84][85] Hoover wrote in his memoirs he did not side
with the liquidationists, but took the side of those in his cabinet with "economic responsibility", his Secretary of Commerce Robert P. Lamont and Secretary of
Agriculture Arthur M. Hyde, who advised the President to "use the powers of government to cushion the situation".[86] But at the same time he kept Andrew Mellon
as Secretary of the Treasury until February 1932. It was during 1932 that Hoover began to support more aggressive measures to combat the Depression.[87] In his
memoirs, President Hoover wrote bitterly about members of his Cabinet who had advised inaction during the downslide into the Great Depression:
The leave-it-alone liquidationists headed by Secretary of the Treasury Mellon ... felt that government must keep its hands off and let the slump liquidate
itself. Mr. Mellon had only one formula: "Liquidate labor, liquidate stocks, liquidate the farmers, liquidate real estate ... It will purge the rottenness out of
the system. High costs of living and high living will come down. People will work harder, live a more moral life. Values will be adjusted, and
enterprising people will pick up the wrecks from less competent people."[81]
Before the Keynesian Revolution, such a liquidationist theory was a common position for economists to take and was held and advanced by economists like Friedrich
Hayek, Lionel Robbins Joseph Schumpeter, Seymour Harris and others.[85] According to the liquidationists a depression is good medicine. The function of a
depression is to liquidate failed investments and businesses that have been made obsolete by technological development in order to release factors of production
(capital and labor) from unproductive uses. These can then be redeployed in other sectors of the technologically dynamic economy. They pointed to the short duration
of the Depression of 1920–21 was due to the policy of letting the liquidation occur and argued that the crisis had laid the groundwork for the prosperity of the later
1920s. They pushed for deflationary policies (which were already executed in 1921) which – in their opinion – would assist the release of capital and labor from
unproductive activities to lay the groundwork for a new economic boom. The liquidationists argued that even if self-adjustment of the economy took mass
bankruptcies, then so be it.[85] Postponing the liquidation process would only magnify the social costs. Schumpeter wrote that it[81]
... leads us to believe that recovery is sound only if it does come of itself. For any revival which is merely due to artificial stimulus leaves part of the
work of depressions undone and adds, to an undigested remnant of maladjustment, new maladjustment of its own which has to be liquidated in turn, thus
threatening business with another (worse) crisis ahead.
Unemployment rate in the US 1910–60, with the years of the
Great Depression (1929–39) highlighted; accurate data
begins in 1939.
Federal spending in millions of dollars (1910–60). The time
period of the Hoover administration, the New Deal and
World War II are highlighted.
Despite liquidationist expectations, a large proportion of the capital stock was not redeployed and vanished during the first years of the Great Depression. According
to a study by Olivier Blanchard and Lawrence Summers, the recession caused a drop of net capital accumulation to pre-1924 levels by 1933.[88]
Criticism
Economists such as John Maynard Keynes and Milton Friedman suggested that the do-nothing policy prescription which resulted from the liquidationist theory
contributed to deepening the Great Depression.[83] With the rhetoric of ridicule Keynes tried to discredit the liquidationist view in presenting Hayek, Robbins and
Schumpeter as
...austere and puritanical souls [who] regard [the Great Depression] ... as an inevitable and a desirable nemesis on so much "overexpansion" as they call
it ... It would, they feel, be a victory for the mammon of unrighteousness if so much prosperity was not subsequently balanced by universal bankruptcy.
We need, they say, what they politely call a 'prolonged liquidation' to put us right. The liquidation, they tell us, is not yet complete. But in time it will be.
And when sufficient time has elapsed for the completion of the liquidation, all will be well with us again...
Milton Friedman stated that at the University of Chicago such “dangerous nonsense” was never taught and that he understood why at Harvard —where such nonsense
was taught— bright young economists rejected their teachers' macroeconomics, and become Keynesians.[81] He wrote:
I think the Austrian business-cycle theory has done the world a great deal of harm. If you go back to the 1930s, which is a key point, here you had the
Austrians sitting in London, Hayek and Lionel Robbins, and saying you just have to let the bottom drop out of the world. You’ve just got to let it cure
itself. You can’t do anything about it. You will only make it worse.… I think by encouraging that kind of do-nothing policy both in Britain and in the
United States, they did harm.[83]
Economist Lawrence White, while acknowledging that Hayek and Robbins did not actively oppose the deflationary policy of the early 1930s, nevertheless challenges
the argument of Milton Friedman, J. Bradford DeLong et al. that Hayek was a proponent of liquidationism. White argues that the business cycle theory of Hayek and
Robbins (which later developed into Austrian business cycle theory in its present-day form) was actually not consistent with a monetary policy which permitted a
severe contraction of the money supply. Nevertheless, White says that at the time of the Great Depression Hayek "expressed ambivalence about the shrinking
nomimal income and sharp deflation in 1929–32".[89] In a talk in 1975, Hayek admitted the mistake he made over forty years earlier in not opposing the Central
Bank's deflationary policy and stated the reason why he had been "ambivalent": "At that time I believed that a process of deflation of some short duration might break
the rigidity of wages which I thought was incompatible with a functioning economy."[41] 1979 Hayek strongly criticized the Fed's contractionary monetary policy
early in the Depression and its failure to offer banks liquidity:
I agree with Milton Friedman that once the Crash had occfurred, the Federal Reserve System pursued a silly deflationary policy. I am not only against
inflation but I am also against deflation. So, once again, a badly programmed monetary policy prolonged the depression.[42]
Herbert Hoover (1929–33)
Economic policy
Historians gave Hoover credit for working tirelessly to combat the depression and noted that he left
government prematurely aged. But his policies are rated as simply not far-reaching enough to address the
Great Depression. He was prepared to do something, but nowhere near enough.[90] Hoover was no
exponent of laissez-faire. But his principal philosophies were voluntarism, self-help, and rugged
individualism. He refused direct federal intervention. He believed that government should do more than
his immediate predecessors (Warren G. Harding, Calvin Coolidge) believed. But he was not willing to go
as far as Franklin D. Roosevelt later did. Therefore, he is described as the "first of the new presidents" and
"the last of the old".[91]
Hoovers first measures were based on voluntarism by businesses not to reduce their workforce or cut
wages. But businesses had little choice and wages were reduced, workers were laid off, and investments
postponed. Hoover urged bankers to set up the National Credit Corporation so that big banks could help
failing banks survive. But bankers were reluctant to invest in failing banks, and the National Credit
Corporation did almost nothing to address the problem.[92] In 1932 Hoover reluctantly established the
Reconstruction Finance Corporation, a Federal agency with the authority to lend up to $2 billion to rescue
banks and restore confidence in financial institutions. But $2 billion was not enough to save all the banks, and bank runs and bank failures continued.[93]
Federal spending
J. Bradford DeLong explained that Hoover would have been a budget cutter in normal times and
continuously wanted to balance the budget. Hoover held the line against powerful political forces that
sought to increase government spending after the Depression began for fully two and a half years. During
the first two years of the Depression (1929 and 1930) Hoover actually achieved budget surpluses of about
0.8% of gross domestic product (GDP). In 1931, when the recession significantly worsened and GDP
declined by 15%, the federal budget had only a small deficit of 0.6% of GDP. It was not until 1932 (when
GDP declined by 27% compared to 1929-level) that Hoover pushed for measures (Reconstruction
Finance Corporation, Federal Home Loan Bank Act, direct loans to fund state Depression relief
programs) that increased spending. But at the same time he pushed for the Revenue Act of 1932 that
massively increased taxes in order to balance the budget again.[87]
Uncertainty was a major factor, argued by several economists, that contributed to the worsening and
length of the depression. It was also said to be responsible “for the initial decline in consumption that
marks the” beginning of the Great Depression by economists Paul R. Flacco and Randall E. Parker.
Economist Ludwig Lachmann argues that it was pessimism that prevented the recovery and worsening of
the depression[94] President Hoover is said to have been blinded from what was right in front of him.
USA GDP annual pattern and long-term trend, 1920–40, in
billions of constant dollars.
Economist James Deusenberry argues economic imbalance was not only a result of World War I, but also of the structural changes made during the first quarter of
the Twentieth Century. He also states the branches of the nation’s economy became smaller, there was not much demand for housing, and the stock market crash
“had a more direct impact on consumption than any previous financial panic”[95]
Economist William A. Lewis describes the conflict between America and its primary producers:
Misfortunes (of the 1930’s) were due principally to the fact that the production of primary commodities after the war was somewhat in excess of
demand. It was this which, by keeping the terms of trade unfavourable to primary producers, kept the trade in manufactures so low, to the detriment of
some countries as the United Kingdom, even in the twenties, and it was this which pulled the world economy down in the early thirties….If primary
commodity markets had not been so insecure the crisis of 1929 would not have become a great depression....It was the violent fall of prices that was
deflationary.[96]
The stock market crash was not the first sign of the Great Depression. “Long before the crash, community banks were failing at the rate of one per day”.[69] It was the
development of the Federal Reserve System that misled investors in the ‘20s into relying on federal banks as a safety net. They were encouraged to continue buying
stocks and to overlook any of the fluctuations. Economist Roger Babson tried to warn the investors of the deficiency to come, but was ridiculed even as the economy
began to deteriorate during the summer of 1929. While England and Germany struggled under the strain on gold currencies after the war, economists were blinded by
an unsustainable ‘new economy' they sought to be considerably stable and successful.[69]
Since the United States decided to no longer comply with the gold standard, “the value of the dollar could change freely from day to day”.[70] Although this
imbalance on an international scale led to crisis, the economy within the nation remained stable.
The depression then affected all nations on an international scale. “The German mark collapsed when the chancellor put domestic politics ahead of sensible finance;
the bank of England abandoned the gold standard after a subsequent speculative attack; and the U.S. Federal Reserve raised its discount rate dramatically in October
1931 to preserve the value of the dollar”.[70] The Federal Reserve drove the American economy into an even deeper depression.
Tax policy
In 1929 the Hoover administration responded to the economic crises by temporarily lowering income tax rates and the corporate tax rate.[97] At the beginning of 1931,
tax returns showed a tremendous decline in income due to the economic downturn. Income tax receipts were 40% less than in 1930. At the same time government
spending proved to be a lot greater than estimated.[97] As a result, the budget deficit increased tremendously. While Secretary of the Treasury Andrew Mellon urged
to increase taxes, Hoover had no desire to do so since 1932 was an election year.[98] In December 1931, hopes that the economic downturn would come to an end
vanished since all economic indicators pointed to a continuing downward trend.[99] On January 7, 1932, Andrew Mellon announced that the Hoover administration
would end a further increase in public debt by raising taxes.[100] On June 6, 1932, the Revenue Act of 1932 was signed into law. It raised taxes on all brackets, tripling
the tax rate on the poorest, and on the wealthy he increased taxes from 25% to 63%.[101][102] The higher taxes were first to be paid for the fiscal year 1933 when
coincidently the long recession ended.
Franklin Delano Roosevelt (1933–45)
The New Deal was Roosevelt´s response to the Great Depression. The reception is mixed. While some
historians and economists argue that the New Deal was the key to recovery others argue that it prolonged
the Great Depression.
In a survey of economic historians conducted by Robert Whaples, Professor of Economics at Wake Forest
University, anonymous questionnaires were sent to members of the Economic History Association.
Members were asked to either disagree, agree, or agree with provisos with the statement that read:
"Taken as a whole, government policies of the New Deal served to lengthen and deepen the Great
Depression." While only 6% of economic historians who wofrked in the history department of their
universities agreed with the statement, 27% of those that work in the economics department agreed.
Almost an identical percent of the two groups (21% and 22%) agreed with the statement "with
provisos" (a conditional stipulation), while 74% of those who worked in the history department, and 51%
in the economic department disagreed with the statement outright.[103]
Arguments for key to recovery
According to Peter Temin, Barry Wigmore, Gauti B. Eggertsson and Christina Romer the biggest primary
impact of the New Deal on the economy and the key to recovery and to end the Great Depression was brought about by a successful management of public
expectations. Before the first New Deal measures people expected a contractionary economic situation (recession, deflation) to persist. Roosevelt's fiscal and
monetary policy regime change helped to make his policy objectives credible. Expectations changed towards an expansionary development (economic growth,
inflation). The expectation of higher future income and higher future inflation stimulated demand and investments. The analysis suggests that the elimination of the
policy dogmas of the gold standard, balanced budget and small government led endogenously to a large shift in expectation that accounts for about 70–80 percent of
the recovery of output and prices from 1933 to 1937. If the regime change would not have happened and the Hoover policy would have continued, the economy
would have continued its free fall in 1933, and output wofuld have been 30 percent lower in 1937 than in 1933.[32][33]
Arguments for prolongation of the Great Depression
In the new classical macroeconomics view of the Great Depression large negative shocks caused the 1929–33 downturn – including monetary shocks, productivity
shocks, and banking shocks – but those developments become positive after 1933 due to monetary and banking reform policies. According to the model Cole-
Ohanian impose, the main culprits for the prolonged depression were labor frictions and productivity/efficiency frictions (perhaps, to a lesser extent). Financial
frictions are unlikely to have caused the prolonged slump.[104][105]
In the Cole-Ohanian model there is a slower than normal recovery which they explain by New Deal policies which they evaluated as tending towards monopoly and
distribution of wealth. The key economic paper looking at these diagnostic sources in relation to the Great Depression is Cole and Ohanian’s work. Cole-Ohanian
point at two policies of New Deal: the National Industrial Recovery Act and National Labor Relations Act (NLRA), the latter strengthening NIRA’s labor provision.
According to Cole-Ohanian New Deal policies created cartelization, high wages, and high prices in at least manufacturing and some energy and mining industries.
Roosevelts policies against the severity of the Depression like the NIRA, a “code of fair competition” for each industry were aimed to reduce cutthroat competition in
a period of severe deflation, which was seen as the cause for lowered demand and employment. The NIRA suspended antitrust laws and permitted collusion in some
sectors provided that industry raised wages above clearing level and accepted collective bargaining with labor unions. The effects of cartelization can be seen as the
basic effect of monopoly. The given corporation produces too little, charges too high of a price, and under-employs labor. Likewise, an increase in the power of
unions creates a situation similar to monopoly. Wages are too high for the union members, so the corporation employs fewer people and, produces less output. Cole-
Ohanian show that 60% of the difference between the trend and realized output is due to cartelization and unions.[104] Chari, Kehoe, McGrattan also present a nice
exposition that’s in line with Cole-Ohanian. .[105]
This type of analysis has numerous counterarguments including the applicability of the equilibrium business cycle to the Great Depression.[106]
See also
◾ Political philosophy
◾ Timeline of the Great Depression
Notes
1. Beaudreau, Bernard C. (1996). Mass Production, the Stock Market Crash and the
Great Depression. New York, Lincoln, Shanghi: Authors Choice Press.
2. Field, Alexander J. (2011). A Great Leap Forward: 1930s Depression and U.S.
Economic Growth. New Haven, London: Yale University Press. p. 182. ISBN 978-
0-300-15109-1<Field cites Freeman & Schwartz (1963), Temin (1976), Bernanke
(1983), Field (1984), Romer (1990), Eighengreen (1992).>
3. Robert Whaples, Where Is There Consensus Among American Economic
Historians? The Results of a Survey on Forty Propositions., Journal of Economic
History, Vol. 55, No. 1 (March 1995), p. 150 in JSTOR.
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/2123771)
4. Robert Whaples, Where Is There Consensus Among American Economic
Historians? The Results of a Survey on Forty Propositions., Journal of Economic
History, Vol. 55, No. 1 (March 1995), p. 143 in JSTOR.
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/2123771)
5. Keen 2000, p. 198.
6. Caldwell, J., & O'Driscoll, T. G. (2007). What Caused the Great Depression?.
Social Education, 71(2), 70-74
7. Paul Krugman, "Who Was Milton Friedman?" New York Review of Books Volume
32, Number 32 · February 3, 2007 online community
(http://www.nybooks.com/articles/19857)
8. Friedman 1965, p. 4.
9. The History of Economic Downturns in the US – But Now You Know.net
(http://butnowyouknow.wordpress.com/those-who-fail-to-learn-fromhistory/
history-of-economic-downturns-in-the-us/)
10. * Bruner, Robert F.; Carr, Sean D. (2007). The Panic of 1907: Lessons Learned
from the Market's Perfect Storm. Hoboken, New Jersey: John Wiley & Sons.
ISBN 978-0-470-15263-8
11. Gold Standards and the Real Bills Doctrine in US Monetary Policy, Richard H
Timberlake, published in Econ Journal Watch, August 2005 –
http://www.econjournalwatch.org/pdf/TimberlakeIntellectualTyrannyAugust2005.pdf
12. Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar publishing, 2003,
ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 11
13. Ben Bernanke, "Non-monetary effects of the financial crisis in the propagation of
the Great Depression", (1983) American Economic Review . Am 73#3 257–76.
14. Friedman 2007, p. 15.
15. (Samuelson 1948, p. 353)
16. Samuelson, Friedman, and monetary policy
(http://krugman.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/12/14/samuelson-friedman-and-monetarypolicy/),
Paul Krugman, New York Times Blog, December 14, 2009
17. Robert Whaples, Where Is There Consensus Among American Economic
Historians? The Results of a Survey on Forty Propositions., Journal of Economic
History, Vol. 55, No. 1 (March 1995), p. 150, in JSTOR
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/2123771?seq=1#page_scan_tab_contents)
18. [1] (http://www.johnmauldin.com/images/uploads/pdf/mwo071811.pdf) Several
graphs of total debt to GDP can be found on the Internet.
19. Jerome, Harry (1934). Mechanization in Industry, National Bureau of Economic
Research.
20. Hansen, Alvin (1939). "Economic Progress and Declining Population Growth".
American Economic Review'. 29 (March).
21. Fisher, Irving (October 1933). "The Debt-Deflation Theory of Great Depressions".
Econometrica. The Econometric Society. 1 (4): 337–357. doi:10.2307/1907327.
JSTOR 1907327.
22. Fortune, Peter (Sep–Oct 2000). "Margin Requirements, Margin Loans, and Margin
Rates: Practice and Principles – analysis of history of margin credit regulations –
Statistical Data Included". New England Economic Review.
23. "Bank Failures". Living History Farm. Retrieved 2008-05-22.
24. "Friedman and Schwartz, Monetary History of the United States", 352
25. Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Edward Elgar Publishing,
2003, ISBN 9781843765509, p. 14-15
26. Bernanke, Ben S (June 1983). "Non-Monetary Effects of the Financial Crisis in the
Propagation of the Great Depression". The American Economic Review. The
American Economic Association. 73 (3): 257–276. JSTOR 1808111.
27. Mishkin, Fredric (December 1978). "The Household Balance and the Great
Depression". Journal of Economic History. 38 (4): 918–37.
doi:10.1017/S0022050700087167.
28. Keen, Steve (2012-12-06). "Briefing for Congress on the Fiscal Cliff: Lessons from
the 1930s - Steve Keen's Debtwatch". Debtdeflation.com. Retrieved 2014-12-01.
29. http://libertyloveandjusticeforall.com/2012/12/08/debt-reset-is-inevitable/
30. Friedersdorf, Conor (2012-12-05). "What If the Fiscal Cliff Is the Wrong Cliff?".
The Atlantic. Retrieved 2014-12-01.
31. "Private Debt Caused The Current Great Depression, Not Public Debt - Michael
Clark". Seeking Alpha. Retrieved 2014-12-01.
32. Gauti B. Eggertsson, Great Expectations and the End of the Depression
(http://www.aeaweb.org/articles.php?doi=10.1257/aer.98.4.1476), American
Economic Review 2008, 98:4, 1476–1516
33. The New York Times, Christina Romer, The Fiscal Stimulus, Flawed but Valuable
(http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/21/business/how-the-fiscal-stimulus-helpedand-
could-have-done-more.html?hp&_r=0), October 20, 2012
34. Peter Temin, Lessons from the Great Depression, MIT Press, 1992, ISBN
9780262261197, p. 87-101
35. Gauti B. Eggertsson, Great Expectations and the End of the Depression
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/29730131), The American Economic Review, Vol. 98,
No. 4 (Sep., 2008), S. 1476-1516, p. 1480
36. Murray Rothbard, America's Great Depression (Ludwig von Mises Institute, 2000),
pp. 159–63.
37. Rothbard, America's Great Depression, pp. 19–21"
38. Mises, Ludwig von (2006). The Causes of the Economic Crisis; and Other Essays
Before and After the Great Depression. Ludwig von Mises Institute. p. 207.
ISBN 978-1933550039.
39. Rothbard, A History of Money and Banking in the United States, pp. 293–94.
40. John Cunningham Wood, Robert D. Wood, Friedrich A. Hayek, Taylor & Francis,
2004, ISBN 9780415310574, p. 115
41. White, Clash of Economic Ideas, p. 94. See alsoWhite, Lawrence (2008). "Did
Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?". Journal of Money, Credit and
Banking. 40 (40): 751–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x.
42. F. A. Hayek, interviewed by Diego Pizano July, 1979 published in: Diego Pizano,
Conversations with Great Economists: Friedrich A. Hayek, John Hicks, Nicholas
Kaldor, Leonid V. Kantorovich, Joan Robinson, Paul A.Samuelson, Jan Tinbergen
(Jorge Pinto Books, 2009).
43. Sennholz, Hans (October 1, 1969). "The Great Depression". Foundation for
Economic Education. Retrieved October 23, 2016.
44. "Lewis Corey: The Decline of American Capitalism (1934)". Marxists.org. 2007-
09-30. Retrieved 2014-12-01.
45. Bell, Spurgeon (1940). "Productivity, Wages and National Income , The Institute of
Economics of the Brookings Institution".
46. Yergin, Daniel (1992). The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money $ Power.
47. Vatter, Harold G.; Walker, John F.; Alperovitz, Gar (2005). "The onset and
persistence of secular stagnation in the U.S. economy: 1910-1990, Journal of
Economic Issues".
48. Beaudreau (1996) cites capacity utilization at 84-86%, which would be a decent
number today; however, there were some industrial leaders who complained of
overcapacity, as did Senator Smoot.
49. Jerome, Harry (1934). Mechanization in Industry, National Bureau of Economic
Research<For the several industries studied industry expansion offset most of the
productivity gains that would otherwise have resulted in many more job losses than
actually occurred. To prevent rising unemployment the laid off workers would have
to have changed industries, but it was noted that even if workers were successful at
such a change the time typically took 18 months or more. The employment
statistics for the 1930 census reflect conditions after the start of the depression so
the actual employment situation prior to the depression is unknown.>
50. "Hours of Work in U.S. History". 2010.
51. Whaples, Robert (June 1991). "The Shortening of the American Work Week: An
Economic and Historical Analysis of Its Context, Causes, and Consequences, The
Journal of Economic History, Vol. 51, No. 2; pp. 454–57".
52. Field, Alexander (2004). "Technological Change and Economic Growth the
Interwar Years and the 1990s" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2012-03-
10.
53. Hubbert, M. King (1940). "Man Hours and Distribution , Derived from Man Hours:
A Declining Quantity, Technocracy, Series A, No. 8, August 1936".
54. Stiglitz, Joseph (2011). "The Book of Jobs". Vanity Fair. Retrieved 2011-12-23
55. Ayres, R. U.; Ayres, L. W.; Warr, B. (2002). "Exergy, Power and Work in the U. S.
Economy 1900–1998, Insead's Center For the Management of Environmental
Resources, 2002/52/EPS/CMER" (PDF)<Fig. 4 in Appendix>From one-sixth to
one-quarter of all land had been used to grow animal feed.
56. Atack, Jeremy; Passell, Peter (1994). A New Economic View of American History.
New York: W.W. Norton and Co. pp. 574–6. ISBN 0-393-96315-2.
57. General Motors and the Decline of Streetcars
(http://debunkportland.com/printables/TQOrigin.pdf)
58. Field, Alexander J. (2011). A Great Leap Forward: 1930s Depression and U.S.
Economic Growth. New Haven, London: Yale University Press. ISBN 978-0-300-
15109-1.
59. David M. Kennedy, 'Freedom From Fear, The American People in Depression and
War 1929–1945, Oxford University Press, 1999, ISBN 0-19-503834-7, pp. 122,
123
60. Dorfman,1959
61. Allgoewer, Elisabeth (May 2002). "Underconsumption theories and Keynesian
economics. Interpretations of the Great Depression" (PDF). Discussion paper no.
2002-14.
62. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p. 108
63. The Road to Plenty (1928)
64. Chapter 15: The Great Depression. (1999). Growth of the International Economy
1820–2000 (pp. 226–34). Taylor & Francis Ltd / Books.
65. Eichengreen 1992, p. xi
66. Bernanke 2002, p. 80
67. Gold Standards and the Real Bills Doctrine in U.S. Monetary Policy, RICHARD H.
TIMBERLAKE
http://www.econjournalwatch.org/pdf/TimberlakeIntellectualTyrannyAugust2005.pdf
68. Parker, p. 49.
69. Chernow, R. (2009, Oct 23). Everyman's financial meltdown. New York Times
(1923-Current File). Retrieved from
http://search.proquest.com/docview/1030683641
70. Temin, P. (2010). The Great Recession & the Great Depression. Daedalus, 139(4),
115–24.
71. White, 1990.
72. Protectionism and the Great Depression
(http://krugman.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/11/30/protectionism-and-the-greatdepression/),
Paul Krugman, New York Times, November 30, 2009
73. The protectionist temptation: Lessons from the Great Depression for today
(http://voxeu.org/index.php?q=node/3280), VOX, Barry Eichengreen, Douglas
Irwin, 17 March 2009
74. EICHENGREEN, B., & IRWIN, D. A. (2010). The Slide to Protectionism in the
Great Depression: Who Succumbed and Why?. Journal Of Economic History, 70
(4), 871–97.
75. Hansen, Alvin (1939). "Economic Progress and Declining Population Growth".
ISBN 978-1162557823<Originally printed in a journal. Reprinted 2004, 2010>
76. Barber, Clarence L. "On the Origins of the Great Depression", Southern Economic
Journal, January, 1978, 44(3), pp. 432–56.
77. Barber, Clarence L. "On the Origins of the Great Depression", Southern Economic
Journal, January 1978, 44(3), pp. 432–56. See also Bolch, B. W. and J. D. Pilgrim,
"A Reappraisal of Some Factors Associated with Fluctuations in the United States
in the Interwar Period." Southern Economic Journal, January 1973, pp. 327–44.
78. Atack, Jeremy; Passell, Peter (1994). A New Economic View of American History.
New York: W.W. Norton and Co. p. 599. ISBN 0-393-96315-2.
79. Longman, Philip (2004). The Empty Cradle: How Falling Birthrates Threaten
World Prosperity And What to Do About It. p. 87. ISBN 0-465-05050-6.
80. Melvin I. Urofsky, The American Presidents: Critical Essays, ISBN 0-8153-
2184-8, p. 391
81. J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real Business Cycle
Theory and the Great Depression (http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?
new_window=1), National Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No.
3546, p. 1
82. White, Lawrence (2008). "Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?".
Journal of Money, Credit, and Banking. 40 (40): 751–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-
4616.2008.00134.x.
83. White, Lawrence (2008). "Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?".
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking. 40 (40): 751–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-
4616.2008.00134.x.
84. J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real Business Cycle
Theory and the Great Depression (http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?
new_window=1), National Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No.
3546, p. 5
85. Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar publishing, 2003,
ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 9
86. Hoover, Herbert. The Memoirs of Herbert Hoover, p. 31
(http://www.ecommcode.com/hoover/ebooks/pdf/FULL/B1V3_Full.pdf) Archived
(https://web.archive.org/web/20081217233238/http://www.ecommcode.com/hoover/ebooks/pdf/FULL/B1V3_December 17, 2008, at the Wayback Machine.
87. Bradford DeLong, What Was Herbert Hoover's Fiscal Policy?
(http://delong.typepad.com/sdj/2011/07/what-was-herbert-hoovers-fiscalpolicy.
html)
88. J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real Business Cycle
Theory and the Great Depression (http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?
new_window=1), National Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No.
3546, p. 33
89. Lawrence White, The Clash of Economic Ideas: The Great Policy Debates and
Experiments of the 20th Century (Cambridge University Press), p. 94.
90. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 4. Auflage, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, pp. 110–11
91. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 4. Auflage, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p. 120
92. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 4. Auflage, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p. 113
93. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 4. Auflage, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p. 114
94. Houck, D. W. (2000). RHETORIC AS CURRENCY: HERBERT HOOVER AND
THE 1929 STOCK MARKET CRASH. Rhetoric & Public Affairs, 3(2), 155–81.
95. Barber, C. L. (1978). "On the Origins of the Great Depression". Southern Economic
Journal, 44(3), 432.
96. Lewis, W. A. Economic Survey, 1919–1929. London: Allen and Unwin, 1949.
97. Roy G. Blakey, Gladys C. Blakey, The Federal Income Tax, 2006, p. 301
98. Roy G. Blakey, Gladys C. Blakey, The Federal Income Tax, 2006, pp. 302–03
99. Roy G. Blakey, Gladys C. Blakey, The Federal Income Tax, 2006, p. 304
100. Roy G. Blakey, Gladys C. Blakey, The Federal Income Tax, 2006, p. 305
101. The Concise Encyclopedia of Economics: The Great Depression
http://www.econlib.org/library/Enc/GreatDepression.html
102. http://www.cato.org/pubs/bp/bp122.pdf
103. Robert Whaples, "Where Is There Consensus Among American Economic
Historians? The Results of a Survey on Forty Propositions", Journal of Economic
History, Vol. 55, No. 1 (Mar., 1995), pp. 139–54 in JSTOR
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/2123771)
104. Cole, Harold L., and Lee E. Ohanian. "The Great Depression from a Neoclassical
Perspective." N.p., n.d. Web.
<https://www.minneapolisfed.org/research/qr/qr2311.pdf>.
105. Chari, V. V., Patrick J. Kehoe, and Ellen R. McGrattan. "Accounting for the Great
Depression." N.p., n.d. Web.
<https://www.minneapolisfed.org/research/qr/qr2721.pdf>.
106. De Vroey, Michel R. "Real Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression: The
Abandonment of the Abstentionist Viewpoint." N.p., n.d. Web.
<http://www.econ.umn.edu/~tkehoe/classes/DevroeyPensieroso.pdf>.
References
◾ Secular Stagnation and Great Depression, R. L. Norman, Jr. (http://www.secularstagnation.com)
◾ Dorfman, Joseph (1959). "Economic Mind in American Civilization"vol 4 and 5 cover the ideas of all American economists of 1918-1933.
◾ Friedman, Milton and Anna Jacobson Schwartz, A Monetary History of the United States, 1867–1960 (1963)
◾ Keen, Steve 2001. Debunking Economics Pluto Press Australia Limited Sydney, Australia
◾ Meltzer, Allan H. 2003 A History of the Federal Reserve Volume I: 1913–1951 Chicago University Press, Chicago, IL
◾ Rothbard, Murray N. 1963 America's Great Depression D. Van Nostrand Company, Princeton, NJ
◾ Rothbard, Murray N. A History of Money and Banking in the United States: The Colonial Era to World War II (2002)
◾ Samuelson, Paul (1948). "Economics".
◾ White, Eugene N. "The Stock Market Boom and Crash of 1929 Revisited" Journal of Economic Perspectives, Vol. 4, No. 2 (Spring, 1990), pp. 67–83;
examines different theories
Further reading
World
◾ Ambrosius, G. and W. Hibbard. A Social and Economic History of Twentieth-Century Europe (1989)
◾ Barber, Clarence Lyle (University of Manitoba) "On the Origins of the Great Depression" (1978)
◾ Bordo, Michael, and Anna J. Schwartz, eds. A Retrospective on the Classical Gold Standard, 1821–1931 (1984) (National Bureau of Economic Research
Conference Report)
◾ Bordo, Michael et al. eds. The Gold Standard and Related Regimes: Collected Essays (1999)
◾ Brown, Ian. The Economies of Africa and Asia in the Inter-War Depression (1989)
◾ Davis, Joseph S. The World Between the Wars, 1919–39: An Economist's View (1974)
◾ Eichengreen, Barry. Golden Fetters: The Gold Standard and the Great Depression, 1919–1939 (NBER Series on Long-Term Factors in Economic
Development), 1996, ISBN 0-19-510113-8
◾ Eichengreen, Barry, and Marc Flandreau, eds. The Gold Standard in Theory and History (1997)
◾ Feinstein, Charles H. The European Economy Between the Wars (1997)
◾ Garraty, John A. The Great Depression: An Inquiry into the Causes, Course, and Consequences of the Worldwide Depression of the Nineteen-Thirties, as Seen
by Contemporaries and in Light of History (1986)
◾ Garraty, John A. Unemployment in History (1978)
◾ Garside, William R. Capitalism in Crisis: International Responses to the Great Depression (1993)
◾ Haberler, Gottfried. The World Economy, Money, and the Great Depression 1919–1939 (1976)
◾ Hall, Thomas E. and J. David Ferguson. The Great Depression: An International Disaster of Perverse Economic Policies (1998)
◾ Kaiser, David E. Economic Diplomacy and the Origins of the Second World War: Germany, Britain, France and Eastern Europe, 1930–1939 (1980)
◾ Kindleberger, Charles P. The World in Depression, 1929–1939 (1983);
◾ Tipton, F. and R. Aldrich. An Economic and Social History of Europe, 1890–1939 (1987)
United States
◾ Ben S. Bernanke. Essays on the Great Depression (2000)
◾ Bernstein, Michael A. The Great Depression: Delayed Recovery and Economic Change in America, 1929–1939 (1989) focus on low-growth and high-growth
industries
◾ Bordo, Michael D., Claudia Goldin, and Eugene N. White, eds. The Defining Moment: The Great Depression and the American Economy in the Twentieth
Century (1998). Advanced economic history.
◾ Chandler, Lester. America's Greatest Depression (1970). economic history overview.
◾ De Long, Bradford. Liquidation Cycles and the Great Depression (1991)
◾ Horwitz, Steven (2008). "Hoover's Economic Policies". In Henderson, David R. Concise Encyclopedia of Economics (2nd ed.). Indianapolis: Library of
Economics and Liberty. ISBN 978-0865976658. OCLC 237794267.
◾ Jensen, Richard J. "The Causes and Cures of Unemployment in the Great Depression," Journal of Interdisciplinary History 19 (1989) 553–83. online at JSTOR
in most academic libraries
◾ McElvaine, Robert S. The Great Depression (2nd ed 1993) social history
◾ Mitchell, Broadus. Depression Decade: From New Era through New Deal, 1929–1941 (1964), standard economic history overview.
◾ Parker, Randall E. Reflections on the Great Depression (2002) interviews with 11 leading economists
◾ Salsman, Richard M. “The Cause and Consequences of the Great Depression” in The Intellectual Activist, ISSN 0730-2355. Mr. Salsman argues that the Great
Depression was fundamentally caused by statist government policy.
◾ Singleton, Jeff. The American Dole: Unemployment Relief and the Welfare State in the Great Depression (2000) (http://www.questia.com/PM.qst?
a=o&d=24419587)
◾ Warren, Harris Gaylord. Herbert Hoover and the Great Depression (1959).
Role of the United States Federal Reserve
◾ Chandler, Lester V. American Monetary Policy, 1928–41. (1971).
◾ Epstein, Gerald and Thomas Ferguson. "Monetary Policy, Loan Liquidation and Industrial Conflict: Federal Reserve System Open Market Operations in
1932." Journal of Economic History 44 (December 1984): 957–84. in JSTOR
◾ Kubik, Paul J., "Federal Reserve Policy during the Great Depression: The Impact of Interwar Attitudes regarding Consumption and Consumer Credit." Journal
of Economic Issues. Vo: 30. Issue: 3. Publication Year: 1996. pp 829+.
◾ Mayhew, Anne. "Ideology and the Great Depression: Monetary History Rewritten." Journal of Economic Issues 17 (June 1983): 353–60.
◾ Meltzer, Allan H. A History of the Federal Reserve, Volume 1: 1913–1951 (2004) the standard scholarly history
◾ Steindl, Frank G. Monetary Interpretations of the Great Depression. (1995).
◾ Temin, Peter. Did Monetary Forces Cause the Great Depression? (1976).
◾ Wicker, Elmus R. "A Reconsideration of Federal Reserve Policy during the 1920–1921 Depression," Journal of Economic History (1966) 26: 223–38, in
JSTOR
◾ Wicker, Elmus. Federal Reserve Monetary Policy, 1917–33. (1966).
◾ Wells, Donald R. The Federal Reserve System: A History (2004)
◾ Wueschner, Silvano A. Charting Twentieth-Century Monetary Policy: Herbert Hoover and Benjamin Strong, 1917–1927 Greenwood Press. (1999)
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Causes_of_the_Great_Depression&oldid=756605201"
Categories: 1920s Great Depression Causes of events
◾ This page was last modified on 25 December 2016, at 13:22.
◾ Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use
and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
1910年-1960年のアメリカ合衆国の年毎の実質GDP。世界恐慌の期間
(1929年-1939年)をピンク色で示した。
世界恐慌の原因
出典: フリー百科事典『ウィキペディア（Wikipedia）』
この記事は検証可能な参考文献や出典が全く示されていないか、不十分です。
出典を追加して記事の信頼性向上にご協力ください。（2009年11月）
この項目「世界恐慌の原因」は途中まで翻訳されたものです。（原文：英語版 "Causes of the Great
Depression" 00:56, 24 August 2012 （UTC） (https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=Causes_of_the_Great_Depression&oldid=508859943)）
翻訳作業に協力して下さる方を求めています。ノートページや履歴 (https://ja.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=%E4%B8%96%E7%95%8C%E6%81%90%E6%85%8C%E3%81%AE%E5%8E%9F%E5%9B%
A0&action=history)、翻訳のガイドラインも参照してください。要約欄への翻訳情報の記入をお忘れなく。
（2016年2月）
世界恐慌の原因(せかいきょうこうのげんいん)は経済学者達の活発な議論の主題となっており、これは広く見れば経済危機に関する議
論の一環でもある。だが一般的には、世界恐慌は1929年の株価大暴落により引き起こされたと信じられている。世界恐慌時に起きた
個々の経済的事件も徹底的に研究されてきた: そういった事件には、資産や商品価格のデフレ、需要と信用の急降下、貿易網の崩壊、
そして究極的に起こる失業とそれに続く貧困などがある。しかしながら、恐慌を引き起こし、あるいは恐慌からの回復をもたらした政府の
経済政策と個々の事件との因果関係は歴史家の間で意見の一致をみていない。
近年では、理論は二つの主流派といくつかの異説に大きく分けられる。
まず、ケインズ経済学や制度派経済学による需要主導モデルの理論では、不景気は消費不足と(それによってバブル経済が引き起こさ
れたところの)過剰投資によって引き起こされたと主張される。需要主導モデルの理論においては、信用が大きく損なわれたことで消費・
投資活動の急激な減少が起きたということで意見が一致している。一たび混乱・デフレが起こると、多くの人々は市場から距離を置くこと
でこれ以上の損失を回避しようとするというのである。このために物価は下がり続け、等量のお金でも多くの物品を買えるようになる。そ
の結果、お金を貯蓄に回すことが有利となり、更なる需要減少に見舞われることになる。
次に、マネタリストらによれば、世界恐慌は通常の不景気として始まったのだが、その時の通貨当局(特に連邦準備制度)による重大な政
策のミスが金融引締めという結果を招き、これによって経済状況が極端に悪化したために通常の不景気から世界恐慌に至ったという。こ
の説明は、負債デフレによって借り手は実質的により多くの債務を負うことになると指摘する人々と関連がある。
このほかにいくつかの異説があり、それらを支持してケインジアンやマネタリストの説明を否定する者がいる。新しい古典派マクロ経済学
者の中には、恐慌初期に課された様々な労働市場政策が長く深刻な世界恐慌を齎したと主張する者もいる。オーストリア経済学派は、
中央銀行の決定がどのようにして誤投資を招くかとマネーサプライのマクロ経済的影響に着目する。
目次
◾ 1 一般理論による説明
◾ 1.1 主流説
◾ 1.1.1 ケインジアン
◾ 1.1.2 マネタリスト
◾ 1.2 異説
◾ 1.2.1 オーストリア学派
◾ 1.2.2 マルクス主義
◾ 2 原因に関する個々の理論
◾ 2.1 負債デフレ
◾ 2.2 負債以外の原因によるデフレ
◾ 2.3 生産に対する衝撃
◾ 2.4 富と収入の不均衡
◾ 2.5 金本位制
◾ 2.6 金融機関の構造
◾ 2.7 保護貿易主義
◾ 2.8 国際的な債権構造
◾ 2.9 集団動力学
◾ 3 経済政策の役割
◾ 3.1 放任清算主義
◾ 3.2 オーストリア学派の政府膨張論
◾ 3.2.1 消費の増大
◾ 3.2.2 新たな公的規制
◾ 3.2.3 税率の引き上げ
◾ 4 関連項目
◾ 5 脚注
◾ 6 参考文献
◾ 7 関連文献
◾ 7.1 世界
◾ 7.2 アメリカ合衆国
◾ 7.3 連邦準備制度の役割
一般理論による説明
主流説
ケインジアン
多くの経済学者がその活動を主張するところの自己修正機構が不景気に働かないことがある理由は複数あると1936年に経済学者ジョ
ン・メイナード・ケインズが主張した。著書『雇用・利子および貨幣の一般理論』においてケインズは、世界恐慌を説明するための概念を導
入した。不景気時における不干渉主義政策に対する一つの主張として、もし貯蓄によって消費が落ち込むならば貯蓄は利率の低下をも
たらすというものがある。古典派経済学者によれば、低い利率は投資の拡大をもたらし需要が持続的になるという。
しかし、利率が低下しても投資が必ずしも活発にならないことの良い説明があるとケインズは主張する。利益を期待しての投資は事業に
よってもたらされる。それゆえ、消費の落ち込みが長期にわたるならば、事業の分析の傾向として将来の売り上げの期待は低いものとな
る。そのため、低利率によって資本が安価になっても将来の生産量を増大させるような投資は最も関心が向かないものとなるのである。
この場合、消費の減少によって経済は一斉安に陥る[1]。ケインズによれば、この自己強化的活動こそが恐慌時に非常に活発になり、倒
産が頻発して(将来に対する楽観的な期待が必要である)投資がほとんど起こらなくなったのだという。この説は経済学者によってしばし
ばセイの法則に反するものとして特徴づけられ、特にオーストリア経済学派に人気がある。
資本投資の減少が恐慌の原因であるという説は長期停滞論の中心的な主題である。
マネタリスト
1963年の著書『米国金融史 1867年-1960年』において、ミルトン・フリードマンとアンナ・シュウォーツは彼ら流の世界恐慌の説明を開陳し
た。彼らの考えによれば、本質的には、世界恐慌はマネーサプライの減少によってもたらされた。フリードマンとシュウォーツは次のように
書いている: 「1929年8月の周期的な山から1933年の周期的な谷までの間に、通貨流通量は3分の1強にまで落ち込んだ。」その結果が
フリードマンいう所の「大収縮」―金融引き締めの窒息効果による収入・物価・雇用の減退―である。この頃、連邦準備制度が供給する
より以上に人々はお金を欲していたのだとフリードマンとシュウォーツは主張する。その結果人々は消費を減らすことでお金を貯蓄した。
また、物価は即座に下落するほど融通が利かないために、結果として、雇用と生産の収縮が起きた。連邦の過ちは何が起こったのか分
からなかったことや正しい対応を取らなかったことにある[2]。
恐慌以降、その主要な説明はマネーサプライの重要性を無視する傾向があった。しかし、マネタリストによれば、恐慌は「事実上、金融の
効果の重要性の悲劇的な証明である[3]。」彼らによれば、連邦準備制度の世界恐慌に対処する上での失敗は、金融政策が無力である
ことの表れではなく、連邦準備制度が間違った政策を実行したことの表れであるという。彼らは連邦が恐慌を「起こした」と主張しているの
ではなく、不景気が恐慌になるのを防ぐ政策を使い損ねたと言っているだけである。
南北戦争後から20世紀初期にかけて、アメリカ合衆国とヨーロッパは政府が規定する形の金本位制を採用していた。この時期のアメリカ
経済は周期的な好不況の波を受けていた。不景気はしばしば銀行不況によって引き起こされていたとみられ、特に重要なものは1873
年、1893年、1901年、1907年、1920年に起こっている[4]。連邦準備制度が1913年に成立する以前のアメリカ合衆国では銀行システムが
紙幣の兌換性を停止することでこうした(1907年恐慌のような)危機に対処していた。1893年に開始して以降、金融機関やビジネスマンに
よる成長努力がこうした危機に介在し、取り付けに喘ぐ銀行に流動性をもたらしていた。1907年の銀行恐慌の際、J・P・モルガンの招集し
たその場限りの連合がこの方法でうまく介入し、それによって恐慌が遮断されており、このため通常銀行恐慌に続いて起こる大恐慌がこ
の時には起こらなかったのだとされる。政府がこうした解決策をとることが要求されたために連邦準備制度が設立されることとなった[5]。
しかし1928年-1932年には、連邦準備制度は取り付けにあえぐ銀行に流動性をもたらすことはなかった。実際にはその政策はマネーサプ
ライの急激な収縮を許すことで銀行危機に応えていた。狂騒の20年代には、中央銀行は第一の目標を「物価の安定」に定めていたが、
これはニューヨーク連邦準備銀行の総裁ベンジャミン・ストロングが、物価の安定を金融目標とした非常に著名な経済学者アーヴィング・
フィッシャーの弟子だからということもある。そういった事情から中央銀行は社会の物価が安定する程度にドルの流通量を保った。1928年
にストロングが死に、彼の死とともにこの政策が終了し、全ての通貨・証券は背後に実際的な物品を裏付けとして持っているべきだという
真正手形学説が取って代わった。この政策の為にアメリカ合衆国のマネーサプライは1929年から1933年の間に3分の1以上に減少するこ
とになった[6]。
この通貨減少によって銀行への取り付けが起こっても連邦は真正手形学説を保持し、1907年恐慌を遮ったときの方法で銀行に貸し付け
ることを拒否し、代わりに各銀行を破滅的な取り付けにあえぐままにさせ完全に没落させた。この政策によって連鎖的な銀行の倒産が起
こり、当時存在した銀行の3分の1が消滅した。[7]。ベン・バーナンキによれば、続いて起こった信用危機によってさらに倒産の波が起こっ
た[8]。1907年と同じ政策が1930年終わりの銀行恐慌の際にも採用されていればこれによって物価下落時の資産の流動化の強制の悪し
き連鎖が防げただろうとフリードマンは述べた。そうしていれば、1893年や1907年に兌換性停止によって当時の流動性危機がすぐに止ん
だのと同じく、1931年、1932年、1933年の銀行恐慌は起こらなかったであろうというのである[9]。
マネタリストによる説明はサミュエルソンの著書『経済学』において否定されており、「連邦準備制度の金融政策を景気循環を制御する万
能薬とみなす経済学者は今日ではほとんどいない。純粋に金融的なファクターは原因であるのと同じだけ徴候であると考えられる、悪化
させる効果を伴っており完全に無視すべきではない徴候ではあるが[10]。」と述べられている。ケインズ経済学者のポール・クルーグマン
によれば、フリードマンとシュウォーツの著作は1980年代までに主流派経済学者の間で支配的になったが、1990年代日本の「失われた
10年」の下に再考されるべきであるという[11]。経済危機における金融危機の役割は世界金融危機 (2007年-)に関する活発な議論で扱わ
れている。世界金融危機 (2007年-)の原因を参照。
異説
世界恐慌初期の取り付け騒ぎ時にニュー
ヨークのアメリカ連合銀行に集まった群衆
オーストリア学派
世界恐慌は1920年代の連邦準備制度の金融政策の避けられない結果だったとオーストリア経済学派は主張している。彼らの意見では、
この中央銀行の政策は持続不可能な信用によるにわか景気をもたらす「安直な信用政策」であった。オーストリア学派の考えでは、この
時期のマネーサプライのインフレが資産価値(有価証券)と資本財の両者において持続不可能なバブルを引き起こしたという。連邦準備
制度が1928年に遅れて金融引き締めを行うまでには、深刻な経済後退を避けるには手遅れになっていた[12]。1929年の大暴落の後の政
府の介入によって市場の調節が遅れ、完全な回復がより困難になる道が開かれたとオーストリア学派は主張している[13]。
世界恐慌の主原因に関するオーストリア学派の説明を受け入れることはマネタリストの説明の否定を受け入れることと両立する。『アメリ
カの世界恐慌』(1963年)の著者でオーストリア経済学派のマリー・ロスバードはマネタリストの説明を否定している。中央銀行はマネーサ
プライを十分に増やすのに失敗したのだというミルトン・フリードマンの主張をロスバードは批判し、代わりに、1932年に連邦準備制度が
11億ドルの米国債を買い入れて所有国債量を18億ドルとした際、連邦準備制度はインフレ政策を追求していたのだと主張する。中央銀
行の政策に反してデフレが深刻化したのは「マネーサプライ総量が30億ドルに達したのに（民間）銀行の準備金の総量は2億1200万ドル
に留まった」ためであり、これはアメリカの大衆が銀行組織に不信感を抱いてさらに多くの預金を銀行から引き出し退蔵したという、中央
銀行の制御を大きく超える理由によるものだと彼は主張する。ロスバードの主張によると、銀行に対する取付のおそれの為に地銀は準
備金の貸し出しにさらに消極的になり、このために連邦準備制度がインフレを起こせなかったという[14]ことになる。
ロスバードがマネタリストの説明を批判したことに対して、もう一人の卓越したオーストリア経済学派のメンバーフリードリヒ・ハイエクは反
対した。ハイエクは、自身が1930年に中央銀行のデフレ政策に反対しなかったことが誤っていたと1975年に認め、曖昧な態度をとったこ
とに関して釈明した: 「当時私は、幾分短い期間におけるデフレの過程は、(経済が機能することと両立不可能だと私が考えていたところ
の)賃金の硬直性を破壊するものだと考えていた[15]。」 1978年には彼は「一たび急落が起こると連邦準備制度は愚かなデフレ政策を追
求するようになるということに関してミルトン・フリードマンに賛成する」と述べてマネタリストの見解に賛成し、デフレに反対してインフレに
賛成することを明らかにした[16]。この流れを汲んで、マネーサプライの強い引き締めを許すような金融政策とハイエクの景気循環理論は
矛盾すると経済学者のローレンス・H・ホワイトが主張している。
マルクス主義
「資本主義#マルクス学派」も参照
マルクス主義者は概して、資本主義モデルに固有の不安定性が世界恐慌を引き起こしたのだと主張する[17]。
原因に関する個々の理論
負債デフレ
詳細は「負債デフレ」を参照
アメリカ合衆国のGDPに対する負債の割合は世界恐慌の時までには300%に達した。この
割合は20世紀終わりまで越えられることはなかった[18]。
ジェローム(1934年)は戦間期の産業の大発展を可能にした財政状態に関する原典不明の
引用をしている:
恐らく未だかつてこの国でこれほどの量の国債がこれほど低い利率、これほど長い
期間にわたって出されたことはなかった[19]。
さらに、スタンダード・スタティスティックス社による60度の国債の指数が1923年の4.98%から
4.47%になった際には新たな資本発行の量が1922年から1929年の年平均から7.7%増加し
たとジェロームは述べている。
1920年代には特にフロリダ州で不動産・住宅のバブルが起こったが1925年に破裂した。
1920年代の住宅建設は人口増加の勢いを25%上回っていたとアルヴィン・ハンセンが述べている[20]。参照:1920年代フロリダの土地バブ
ル
アーヴィング・フィッシャーは、世界恐慌を引き起こした主原因は負債過多とデフレだと主張した。フィッシャーは信用の低下を負債過多と
結びつけ、負債過多が投機熱と資産バブルを刺激したのだとしている[21]。負債・デフレという状況下で相互作用し、バブルが起こり崩壊
する仕組みを作りだした九つの要因を彼は概説している。それら先行する出来事の連鎖は以下:
1. 負債の流動化と占有権の売却
2. 銀行ローンとしてのマネーサプライの緊縮が清算される
3. 資産価格水準の低下
4. 全体としての商業価値の深刻な低下、突然の破産
5. 利益の低下
6. 商業・雇用における生産量の低下
7. 信用の減少とペシミズム
8. お金の死蔵
9. 名目金利の低下と利率にあわせたデフレの拡大[21]
ウォール街大暴落後にウォール街に群がる
群衆
世界恐慌に先行する1929年の急落の際、証拠金規定額は10%にすぎなかった[22]。つまり、
株式仲売業者は投資社が1ドル預けるごとに9ドル貸し付けた。市場が急落した際、業者は
こうしたローンを回収しようとしたが、それは返ってくることはなかった。債務者が債務不履
行を起こし、預金者が一斉に預金を回収しようとすることで取り付け騒ぎが起こり、銀行が
倒産し始めた。こうした騒ぎを食い止めるための政府の保証や連邦準備制度による銀行の
規制は効果がないか使われなかった。銀行の破産により数十億ドルの資産が失われた
[23]。
物価と収入が20-50%減少しているのに負債は同価格であるため、未払いの負債が重くのし
かかった。1929年の混乱の後、1930年最初の10か月間に744のアメリカ合衆国の銀行が破
産した(1930年代には全部で9000ほどの銀行が破産した)。1933年4月までに、3月の銀行の
法定休日の後に無資格の預金や破産した銀行の70億ドルの預金が凍結された[24]。
絶望した銀行家が、借り手が返すお金・時間を持てないほどの勢いで貸付金の回収を行う
とともに銀行の倒産が連鎖的に起こった。予測利益が低いものであったため、資本投資や
建築が停滞した。不良債権や将来の見通しの悪化に直面し、生きのこった銀行は貸付によ
り消極的になった[23]。銀行は基本準備金を増加させるとともに貸し付けを減らし、これに
よってデフレ圧を強めた。悪しき循環が進み、下降スパイラルが増加した。
負債の流動化は自身が引き起こした物価の下降を食い止められなかった。自身の資産を
流動させようという大衆の衝動的行動の大局的効果によってデフレが加速し、資産量減衰
の価値に影響した。自身の負債を減らそうとする個々人の努力こそが事実上それを増大さ
せていた。逆説的だが、負債者が払えば払うほど、彼らは負債を多く抱えることになった
[21]。この自己悪化の過程が1930年の不景気を1933年の世界恐慌へ変えた。
連邦準備銀行の総裁ベン・バーナンキのようなマクロ経済学者がフィッシャーに由来する世界恐慌の負債デフレ説を復活させた[25][26]。
負債以外の原因によるデフレ
負債デフレに加えて、19世紀最後の四半世紀の大デフレ以降に起こった生産性デフレの構成要素が存在した[27] 。第一次世界大戦に
よって起こったインフレを強める補正もおそらく継続していた。
48州で見つかった中でも最大の油田、東テキサス油田が操業して、1930年代には原油価格が歴代最安値に達していた。原油市場にお
ける過剰供給のため価格は10セント/バレルにまで低下していた[28]。参照: 世界恐慌の原因#生産に対する衝撃
生産に対する衝撃
20世紀最初の30年には資本投資と経済生産高が電化・大量生産・輸送機関の電動化・農業の機械化とともに湧き起こり、生産性の急速
な増加により、多くの工場の閉鎖や物価の下落とともに余剰生産能力の増大が見られた[19][29]。結果として、世界恐慌の前の10年には
一週の労働時間が僅かに減少していた[30][31][32]。世界恐慌によってさらに多くの工場が閉鎖した[19]。
「我々の述べる[生産性、生産高、雇用の]傾向が1929年以前に完全に明白だったことをあまり極端に強調することはできな
い。この傾向はこの恐慌の結果では決してないし、世界大戦の結果でもない。そうではなくて、この恐慌はこういった長期に
わたる傾向の結果起こった崩壊なのである[33]。」マリオン・キング・ヒューバート
全米経済研究所の援助により出版されたジェローム『産業の機械化』(1934年)には、機械化が生産高を増大させる傾向を持つのか労働
力を解雇する傾向を持つのかは生産物の要求の弾力性に依存すると述べられている[19]。また、生産コスト現象は必ずしも消費者に還元
されない。さらに、第一次世界大戦以降ウマやラバが非動物の動力に取って代わられるとともに家畜飼料の需要が減少して農業は不利
な影響を被ったと述べられている。「技術的失業」という術語は世界恐慌時の労働環境を表すのに使われるとも『産業の機械化』に記さ
れている[19]。
「戦間期アメリカ合衆国の特徴である失業の増大の幾分かは非弾力的需要に応じた商品を生産する産業の機械化が原因
であるといえるだろう[19]。」フレデリック・C・ウェルズ、1934年
1923年の景気循環の頂点からしばらく後、過剰な労働者が雇用創生と比較して生産性発展により取って代わられており、1925年以降の
失業の拡大を引き起こした[34][29]。
アメリカ合衆国の主要産業の生産性の劇的な拡大とその生産品、賃金、労働時間に対する影響が、ブルッキングス研究所の支援により
出版された書籍の中で議論されている。[27]
肥料、機械化、品種改良を通じた生産性ショックこそが農産物価格の低下を引き起こしたのだとジョセフ・スティグリッツとブルース・グリー
ンウォルドが主張した。農家は過剰な労働力供給を加えた土地に押し込められていたのだという[35]。
農産物価格は第一次世界大戦後に低下し始めた。結果的に多くの農家が商売として農業を成り立たせられなくなり、数百の小規模な地
銀の倒産を招いた。トラクター、肥料、雑種トウモロコシによる農業生産性は問題の一部にすぎなかった; 他の問題とはウマ・ラバから内
燃力輸送機関への転換であった。ウマ・ラバの数は第一次世界大戦以降減少し始め、家畜飼料を生産していた大量の土地が余るように
なった[19][36]。
自動車・バスが電車の発展を止めるようになった[37]。
富と収入の不均衡
ウォディル・キャッチングズ、ウィリアム・トゥルファント・フォスター、レックスフォード・タグウェル、アドルフ・バール(、そして後にはジョン・ケ
ネス・ガルブレイス)といった経済学者はフランクリン・ルーズベルトに幾分かの影響を与えた理論を普及させた[38]。その理論とは、経済
が、消費者に十分な収入がないにもかかわらず、消費者が購入できる以上の商品を生産してしまった、というものである[39][40][41]。この説
によれば、1920年代の賃金の上昇率は生産性の上昇率を下回っていたのである。生産性が増大したことによる恩恵のほとんどは利潤と
なってしまい、それは株式市場バブルを引き起こしたものの、消費者の購買行動には繋がらなかった。このように、1920年代を通じて富
が不平等に分配されたことが世界恐慌を引き起こしたという。
この説によれば、世界恐慌の根本的な原因は、独立企業による賃金・収入の水準が十分な購買力を生み出すに達していないにもかか
わらず行われた世界的な過剰投資である。また、政府は富裕層に対する課税を重くすることで収入をより平等にすべきだった、と主張さ
れる。政府は、歳入の増加を利用して公共事業を行って雇用を増加させることで経済を「蹴って始動」させられた、という。だがアメリカ合
衆国では1932年まで、これとは正反対の経済政策が行われていたのである。大統領退任前年のハーバート・フーヴァーに紹介されフラ
ンクリン・ルーズベルトによって採用されることになった<1932年歳入法>や公共事業計画が、購買力をある程度再分配することに成功し
たのである[42][43]。
金本位制
世界恐慌の金本位制理論によれば、恐慌の原因は主に、第一次世界大戦後の西側諸国が戦前の値段に基づく金本位制に復帰しようと
したことにである。この説によれば、これによって金融政策がデフレ志向になり10年間にわたってヨーロッパの多くの国の経済の健全性を
害し続けたという。
この戦後政策に先駆けてインフレ政策がとられていた第一次世界大戦中には、多くのヨーロッパ諸国は戦費の激増により金本位制を廃
止せざるを得なかった。この結果、新しく作られた金の供給がインフレを中和させる生産性への投資ではなく戦費に使われたため、インフ
レが起こった。この説は、大量に導入された金の量によってインフレ率が決まり、それゆえインフレへ導くことが、破壊的・消費的であって
経済成長を導かない目的のために造られた新貨幣の総量を減少させるというものである。
戦後アメリカやヨーロッパ諸国が金本位制に復帰した際、多くの国は戦前の水準の金-通貨レートをとった。例えばイギリスでは1925年に
金本位法が国会を通過し、これによって金本位制に復帰した際、当時外国為替市場で戦前よりもずっと低い価格でポンドが取引されて
いたにもかかわらずスターリング・ポンドを戦前と等価に設定するという致命的な決定を行った。当時ジョン・メイナード・ケインズらは、政
府はそうすることによって釣り合いが取れていないような賃金再設定を強いているのだと主張してこの決定を批判した。ウィンストン・
チャーチルが金本位制に復帰させたことに対するケインズの批判はこれを暗にヴェルサイユ条約の結果と比較するものであった。
戦前と等価にしようという傾向が生まれた理由として一つは、デフレは危険ではないのに対してインフレは、特にヴァイマール共和国に見
られるインフレは耐え難い危険であるという当時優勢であった意見があった。もう一つの理由として、額面価額で貸し付けている者は自
身が貸し付けたのと同価値の金を回復できる期待があったというものがある[citation needed]。フランスに支払わなければならない巨額
の賠償金を支払うための外貨を獲得するのに十分な商品を輸出・販売するために、ドイツは信用を犠牲にした成長の時代に入った。世
界の金の溜まる場所としてのアメリカ合衆国はドイツがフランスに償還するための基盤として産業化するための資金を貸し付け、フランス
はイギリスおよびアメリカに償還した。この流れはドーズ案に明文化された。
非常に高利の借金をして再融資もできない状態にあるか、低利率ではないときに資本財に融資するための貸し付けに依存している場
合、農業のような産業分野にとってデフレは辛いものとなりうる。負債の実質的価値が増加しているのに対して物価はデフレに浸食され
ていく。資産を現金で保持している者や、資産を投資・購買に充てたり資金を貸し付けたりしようとしている者にとってはデフレは有益であ
る。
ピーター・テミン、ベン・バーナンキ、バリー・アイケングリーンといった経済学者によるより近年の研究は、世界恐慌時に緊縮政策がとら
れていたことに着目している。この考え方によれば、戦間期の金本位制下での緊縮は最初の経済的ショックを拡大し、恐慌を食い止める
あらゆる行動に対して大きな障害となったという。彼らによれば、最初の不安定化させる衝撃はアメリカ合衆国のウォール街大暴落に起
因するが、外国に問題を伝播させたのは金本位制であるという[44]。
彼らの出した結論によると、危機の時代の政策決定者たちは金融政策・財政政策を緩和しようとしたが、そのような行動が、契約上の率
で金を交換する義務を維持する国家の能力を脅かしたという。外国の資産を金で買おうとする国際的投資家を引き付けるために、金本
位制は高利率を維持することを要求する。そのため、金本位制を廃止しない限り、政府は景気の急落にも手をこまねいているほかない。
金本位制をとる全ての国の交換比率を修正することで、外国為替市場が利率の平衡を保つ事だけは保証される。恐慌が悪化すると多く
の国が金本位制を廃止し始め、より早く廃止した国々はより少なくデフレの影響を受けてより早くデフレから回復する傾向があった[45]。
自由銀行制派経済学者にしてミルトン・フリードマンの弟子のリチャード・ティンバーレイクは自身の立場を『アメリカ合衆国の金融政策に
みられる金本位制と実質手形原理』で明確に説明したが、この論文での彼の主張によると、連邦準備制度は実は金本位制化においてか
なりの余裕を持っており、そのことがニューヨーク連邦準備銀行総裁ベンジャミン・ストロングによる1923年から1928年の物価安定政策に
よって証明されたという。しかし1928年後半にストロングが没すると、ニューヨーク連邦準備銀行の支配権を引き継いだ派閥が、全ての金
は実際の商品によって代表されなければならないという実質手形原理を唱道した。ドルに30%のデフレを強いて当然合衆国経済に損害
を与えたこの政策は恣意的で、避けられるものであって、金本位制はこれなしに存続できたとティンバーレイクが述べている:
金の管理におけるこの移行は決定的であった。ストロングは前任者に従って金本位制という足かせに頓着せずに物価安定政策を
実行し、実質手形原理の支持者は自身の理想とする政策を実行する上で同様に束縛を受けずに済んだ。1928年-1929年のシステ
ムポリシーは結果的に物価安定から受動的な実質手形に移行した。「この」金本位制はそれが再出現するのに好都合な時を待つ
形式的な見せ掛けでしかない場所で残存した[46]。
金融機関の構造
経済史家(特にフリードマンとシュウォーツ)が多くの銀行が倒産したことの重要性を強調する。倒産は主にアメリカの地方で起こった。地
域経済の構造的な脆弱性によって地銀が非常に貧弱になっていたのである。農家は既に多額の負債を抱えており、1920年代に農場価
格が急落するのと負債の予想実質比率が跳ね上がるのとを目にした。
ニューヨーク株価指数
彼らの土地は(1919年の地価バブルの結果として)過剰に法的義務
を負わされており、穀物の価格が低いために彼らは所有物を売り
払うことを強いられた。小銀行、特に農業経済と結びついた小銀行
は1920年代には突然の実質利率の上昇による顧客の債務不履行
のために常に危機的状況にあった; こういった小銀行の間には20
年代を通じて既に倒産の波が押し寄せていたのである。
都銀もまたショックへの弱さをもたらす構造的脆弱性に苦しんでい
た。国内最大の銀行の中には適量の準備金を保持せずに、株式市
場で大量の投資を行ったりリスクの高い貸し付けを行ったりするも
のもあった。ニューヨーク市銀によるドイツやラテンアメリカへの貸し
付けは特に高リスクであった。つまり、銀行機構は大不景気の
ショックを低減するように十分に準備されていなかったのである。
ウォール街大暴落に関する事実をどれだけ特定できるか経済学
者・歴史家が議論している。時期は明らかである。; 将来の利益に
対する期待への衝撃は甚大であった。1928年-1929年の市場はファ
ンダメンタルズによって定められたよりも極端に物価が高い「バブ
ル」であったとほとんどのアナリストが考えている。そのことに何らかの点で責任があるが、どれだけ責任があるかを推量することはでき
ないと経済学者たちは認めている。「1929年の株式市場の崩壊が最初の不景気に役割を果たしたことは片時も疑えない[47]」とミルトン・
フリードマンが結論付けている。
議論は三つのグループに分かれている: 最初のグループは、急落が将来の予想の劇的な低下と大量の資本投資の撤退とによって恐慌
を引き起こしたと述べる; 第二のグループは、1929年夏に景気がずり落ちて急落がそれを追認したと述べる; 第三のグループは、どちら
のシナリオにおいても急落は不景気を引き起こす以上のことはなしえないと述べる。市場は1930年4月には一旦回復したが、それ以降物
価は再び下がり続け、1932年7月にやっと最終的な底値に達した。これはどう計ってもアメリカ合衆国で最長期間の市場の衰退である。
1930年の不景気から1931年-1932年の大恐慌への遷移の為に、全く異なる要因が役割を果たしたのである[48]。
保護貿易主義
スムート・ホーリー法にみられるような保護貿易主義は、保護貿易主義政策をとってその結果近隣窮乏化政策に至った国々とともに、世
界恐慌の原因としてしばしば挙げられる[49][50]。スムート・ホーリー法は農家の債務不履行を招いており、特に農業に対して有害であっ
た。この出来事により中西部や西部での取り付けが起こったか悪化したかして、その結果銀行機構が崩壊した。1000人以上の経済学者
が署名した嘆願書が連邦政府に提出され、その嘆願書中でスムート・ホーリー法が経済に壊滅的な影響をもたらすという警告がなされ
た; しかし、これによってスムート・ホーリー法の議会通過が覆ることはなかった。
変動相場制ではなく金本位制をとる国で保護貿易主義が採用されたことを鑑み、保護貿易主義は恐慌の原因ではなく恐慌に対する「反
応」であったと主張する経済学者もいる[50]: 金本位制をとる国々は利率を切り下げたり最後の貸し手となったりすることができなかった、
というのはそれらの国々はいずれ金を切らすが、金本位制を取らない国々は利率を切り下げて不換紙幣を印刷することができるからで
ある。この解釈の下では、保護貿易主義は、金融政策が金本位制に縛られている国々の貿易条件を変化させるのに一役買ったといえ
る。
国際的な債権構造
1918年に終戦を迎えると、ヨーロッパの国でアメリカ合衆国と提携している国は全てアメリカの銀行から多額の借金をし、その借金の総
額はそれらの国々の大戦で蕩尽された国庫では支払いきれないほどになった。これが、連合国がドイツやオーストリア・ハンガリーに対し
て(ウッドロウ・ウィルソンを驚嘆させたほどの)賠償金を要求した理由の一つである。連合国の信ずるところによれば、賠償金のおかげで
連合国は負債を清算する目途がたつはずだった。しかし、ドイツとオーストリア・ハンガリー自身が戦後に深刻な経済危機に陥っていた;
連合国が負債を支払えない以上にドイツとオーストリア・ハンガリーが賠償金を支払えないという状況であった。
債務国は1920年代にアメリカ合衆国に負債の免除か少なくとも負債の軽減を行うことを強く要求した。対するアメリカ政府はその要求を
拒否した。代わりに、アメリカの銀行が欧州諸国に対して大規模な貸し付けを始めた。そのため、負債(と賠償金)は古い負債を増額させ
て新しい負債を積み重ねることによってのみ支払われる。1920年代後半には、特にアメリカ経済が1929年以降に弱体化してからは、欧
州諸国がアメリカからさらに金を借りるのが困難になった。同時に、アメリカの高い関税によって、欧州諸国が商品をアメリカ市場で売る
のが非常に困難になった。借金を払い戻すために貿易によって収入を得ることもできず、欧州諸国は債務不履行を起こし始めた。
1920年代後半になると、ヨーロッパのアメリカに対する商品需要は減少し始めた。これは、ヨーロッパの産業・農業の生産性が増したから
というのもあるし、いくつかの欧州諸国(最も顕著なのはヴァイマル共和制下のドイツ)が深刻な経済危機にあえいでいて外国の商品を買
う余裕がなかったからというのもある。しかし、1920年代後半にヨーロッパ経済を不安定化させた主原因は、第一次世界大戦の余波の中
で起きた国際的債権構造である。
スムート・ホーリー法のような関税障壁によって戦争負債の支払いが致命的に妨害された。アメリカ合衆国の高関税の結果、ある種の循
環のみによって賠償金や戦争支払いの続行がなされた。1920年代に、かつての連合国は主にドイツの賠償金支払いによって得られた
資金によって戦争負債を分割支払いし、ドイツはアメリカ合衆国とイギリスからの私的な借金によってのみ支払うことができた。同様に、
アメリカが海外に投資したドルのみによって諸外国がアメリカの輸出品を購入することができた。
1929年の株式市場急落に続く流動性の奪い合いの中、ヨーロッパからアメリカへ資金が回収され、ヨーロッパの脆弱な経済が砕け散っ
た。
1931年までに、世界は近現代で最悪の恐慌によってがたつき、賠償金や戦争負債の構造全体が崩壊した。
10億固定ドル価による1920年-1940年のアメリカ合衆国の年毎
のGDPと長期間の趨勢
集団動力学
1939年に、著名な経済学者アルヴィン・ハンセンが恐慌と連動して人口増加率が減少すると主張した[51]。同じ説が1978年の雑誌記事で
マニトバ大学の経済学者クラレンス・バーバーによって主張された。一種のハロッド・ドーマーモデルを用いて世界恐慌を分析し、彼はこう
述べている:
「このモデルでは、ハロッドの自然成長率の減少を生み出す状況に、より具体的には人口増加率、労働力増加率、生産性・技術発
展性の増加率が正当な成長率以下にまで減少している中に、深刻な恐慌の起源を探ることになる[52]。
1920年代の「生産性成長率」の減少の「はっきりした証拠はない」が、同時期の人口増加率現象の「はっきりした証拠」はあるとバーバー
は述べている。深刻な恐慌を引き起こすうえで十分重要な「自然成長率」の減少は人口増加率現象によって起きたのであろうと彼は述べ
ている[52]。
バーバーは、おそらく人口増加率の減少が住宅需要に影響したのだろうと述べ、これが1920年代に起こったことと見受けられると主張し
ている。かれはこう結論している:
「農家以外の家庭の急速で非常に大規模な増加率減少こそが明らかに、1926年以降のアメリカ合衆国の住宅建築界に起こったこ
とである。そしてこの減少が、ボルチとピルグリムが主張し続けているように、1929年の都心の大恐慌への転換の最も重要な一要
因なのであろう[53]。」
1920年代の人口増加率現象の原因の中には1910年以降の出産率低下[54]や移民の減少がある。移民の減少は主に1920年代に大幅な
移民抑制策がとられたことにある。1921年に緊急移民制限法が議会を通過し、続いて1924年移民法が制定された。
経済政策の役割
放任清算主義
今日の主流派経済学派の考えでは、政府は広く名目上の累計を安定した
成長傾向に留めておくよう努力すべきだった(新しい古典派やマネタリストに
とって、基準は名目マネーサプライである; ケインズ経済学派にとって、基
準は名目総需要それ自体である)。名目マネーストックと総名目需要を急落
しないよう保つために、恐慌期には、中央銀行は銀行機構に流動性を注入
するべきであり、政府は税率を切り下げ消費を促進すべきであった[55]。
連邦政府と連邦準備制度は1929年-1932年にこれを行わず、世界恐慌へと
陥った。経済史家の間で一般的になってきている説では、連邦準備制度の
政策決定者たちの清算主義理論への執着が破滅的な結果を招いたとされ
る[56]。「清算主義」の存在が世界恐慌という宿痾と戦わない公共政策を決
定する動機づけをするうえで重要な役割を果たした。フーヴァー大統領はこ
う書いている:[57]
“ メロン財務長官に率いられた放任清算主義者たちが[...]政
府は手を出さずにスランプ自己清算するのに任せるべきだ
と感じている。メロン氏はたった一つの方策を持っている:
「労働を清算せよ、株式を清算せよ、農家を清算せよ、不動
産を清算せよ」[...]「それによってシステムから腐敗が排除
される。高額の生命、高い生命は低下する。人々はより働
き、より道徳的に生活するようになる。価値観が調節され、
人々を楽しませることが競争力に劣る人々の破滅を防ぐ。」”
「ケインジアン革命」以前は、このような清算主義理論が経済学者のとる一般的立場であり、フリードリヒ・ハイエク、ライオネル・ロビン
ズ、ヨーゼフ・シュンペーター、シーモア・ハリスといった経済学者によってこの理論が主張・発展させられた[58]。清算主義者によれば恐慌
は良薬である。恐慌の機能は、非生産的な使用から生産の要因(資本と労働)を解放するために、技術的発展のために時代遅れとなり失
敗した投資・ビジネスを清算することだとされた。それらの要因は技術的に活発な経済分野に回された。彼らは1920年-1921年の恐慌に
言及して、この恐慌は1920年代後半の繁栄の基礎を築いたと主張した。彼らは(1921年に既に実行されていた)デフレ政策をとることを要
求し、この政策は資本・労働力を非生産的な活動から解放して新たな経済的バブルの基礎を築くのに使うものだと主張した。経済の自己
調節が大量の倒産を起こすとしても、そうなるのに任せておくべきだと清算主義者たちは主張した[59]。というのは、聖餐過程を延期するこ
とは徒に社会的コストを増大させるだけだと彼らが考えていたからである。シュンペーターの著作によれば、それは[60]
“ [...]回復は、ひとりでに起こったときにのみ健全であると私たちに信じさせてくれる。人工的な刺激のみによるいかなる復
活も、十分に恐慌の働きが行き届かない部分を残し、環境不適応だった部分が消化され切らずに残った部分に対してそ
れ自体の新たな環境不適応が加えられ、それがまた生産を必要とするようになり、後々に別の[より悪い)危機によって商
業を脅かすのである。”
清算主義者の期待に反して、株式資本の大部分は世界恐慌一年目に転換・消去されなかった。オリヴィエ・ブランチャードとローレンス・
サマーズの研究によれば、1933年までに不景気によって1924年以前のレベルの資本蓄積が起こった[61]。
ジョン・メイナード・ケインズやミルトン・フリードマンといった経済学者は、清算主義理論から帰結する放置策が世界恐慌の深刻化に資し
たと主張している[62]。ケインズは嘲笑のレトリックによって、ハイエク、ロビンズ、シュンペーターを以下のように表すことで清算主義思想
の信用を失わせようとした。
“ [...]禁欲的・清教徒的な心根が[世界恐慌を][...]彼らの言うところの「過膨張」にたいする不可避にして望ましい報いとして
扱う[...]。それは、過剰な繁栄が続く全体的な倒産によってバランスがとられなかったときに、不正な富に対して起こる勝
利だと彼らは感じている。自分たちが丁重にも「延期された清算」と呼ぶものが自分たちを正してくれることを望むと彼ら
は述べている。彼らが我々に述べるところによると、清算は未だ完了していない。しかしやがては完了する。そして清算
が完了するのに十分な時間がたてば、全ては再び我々にとって良くなる[...]
”
ミルトン・フリードマンは、こういった「危険なナンセンス」はシカゴ大学では決して教えられていないこと、なぜ(このナンセンスが教えられ
ている)ハーヴァードで若く明敏な経済学者達が自分たちの師のマクロ経済学を否定してケインジアンに転向するのかを自分は分かって
いること、を述べた[63]。彼はこう書いている:
“ 私が思うにオーストリア学派の景気循環理論は世界に大きな悪影響をもたらした。あなたがキー・ポイントたる1930年代
に戻れば、ロンドンにオーストリア学派がはびこっているのが見られて、ハイエクやライオネル・ロビンズに世界が景気の
底にあるのを放置しろと言われるだろう。あなたはそれに従って景気が自己回復するに任せることになるだろう。それに
対して何かをすることは許されない。何をしてもより悪くなるだけなのだから。[...]私が思うにこの種の放置策に焚き付けら
れて、イギリスでもアメリカでも彼らは害を為したのである[64]。”
経済学者ローレンス・H・ホワイトは、ハイエクとロビンズが1930年代初期のデフレ政策に積極的には反対しなかったことを認めたが、そ
れにも関わらず、ハイエクが清算主義の唱道者であったというミルトン・フリードマン、ジェームズ・ブラッドフォード・デロングその他の主張
に挑戦した。ハイエクとロビンズの景気循環理論(後に今日知られているようなオーストリア景気循環理論に発展する)は実はマネーサプ
ライの強い引き締めを許すような金融政策とは矛盾するものだったとホワイトは主張する。それにもかかわらず、世界恐慌の際にはハイ
エクは「1929年-1932年の強いデフレと名目収入の萎縮に曖昧な態度をとった[65]」とホワイトは述べている。1975年の講話で、ハイエクは
自身が40年以上前に中央銀行のデフレ政策に反対しなかったことの非を認め、曖昧な理由をとったことの理由を説明した: 「当時私はあ
る程度短期間のデフレの過程は、経済が機能することと相容れないと私が考えていた賃金の硬直性を破壊すると信じていた[66]。」その
三年後、ハイエクは世界恐慌初期の連邦の突然のマネーサプライの引き締めと連邦が銀行に流動性を供給するのに失敗したことを強く
批判した:
“ 「一たび急落が起こると連邦準備制度が愚かなデフレ政策に走ったという点に関して私はミルトン・フリードマンに同意す
る。私は単にインフレに反対しているのではなく、デフレにも反対している。だから、もう一度、間違って計画された金融政
策が恐慌を引き延ばす[67]。”
オーストリア学派の政府膨張論
消費の増大
フーヴァーが連邦政府の消費を50%引き上げたのは効果的だった。ほとんどの増大が1932年に起こり、それに同調して長い不景気が
ゆっくりと終わりを迎えた。オーストリア経済学派の中でも自由銀行制派に属する経済学者スティーヴン・ホーウィッツは、短い不景気だっ
たはずのものを長引かせて「大恐慌」にしてしまったとしてフーヴァーの消費を責めている:
短い不景気に終わるはずだったものを、より深刻で、ずっと長い大恐慌に変えてしまったという批判をハーヴァート・フーヴァーはう
まく捌いている[...]彼は恐慌と戦うために政府の役割を大きく拡張した[...]その結果は、不幸なことに(しかし驚くべきことではなく)、
火と上手く戦ったというよりもむしろ炎を煽った[68]。
デイヴィッド・ワインバーガーは、このアプローチを、ウィルソンの強い連邦政府が引き起こした恐慌の下で経済を劇的に刺激したと彼が
述べた(正当なチャートにおいても見られる)クーリッジ政権下の消費・税・赤字の切り下げと対比した[69]。クーリッジ政権の商務長官とし
てフーヴァーが消費増大とクーリッジの下での規制を奨励したが、多くの部分を1929年に彼自身が実行したことに彼は注目する[70]。GDP
に占める連邦の消費が成長し続けていたことを発見したランダル・グレゴリー・ホルコムが述べているように、フーヴァーの下でのこの大
成長はフーヴァーによる景気下降で歳入を減らしたとしても事実連邦準備制度の下で以上の事がなされたことは明らかだという[71]。
新たな公的規制
著書『アメリカの世界恐慌』、『ハーバート・フーヴァーの恐慌』その他において、マリー・ロスバードは、フーヴァーが示した産業・農業・雇
用といった分野における新たな連邦規制の一覧を提示したが、彼はそれを世界恐慌をもたらした連邦準備制度の干渉主義と結びつけて
述べた[72]。
税率の引き上げ
1932年にフーヴァーは歳入法を制定して税率を劇的に引き上げた。彼はあらゆる層に対する税を引き上げ、最貧困層に対する税を三倍
にして富裕層に対する税率を25%から63%に上げた[73][74]。この高率の税は会計年度であり長い不景気が終わった年に同調して支払わ
れた。
関連項目
◾ 政治哲学
◾ 世界恐慌のタイムライン
脚注
1. ^ Keen 2000, p.198.
2. ^ Paul Krugman, "Who Was Milton Friedman?" New York Review of
Books Volume 32, Number 32 · February 3, 2007 online community
(http://www.nybooks.com/articles/19857)
3. ^ Friedman 1965, p.4.
4. ^ The History of Economic Downturns in the US -- But Now You
Know.net (http://butnowyouknow.wordpress.com/those-who-fail-tolearn-
from-history/history-of-economic-downturns-in-the-us/)
5. ^ * Bruner, Robert F.; Carr, Sean D. (2007), The Panic of 1907:
Lessons Learned from the Market's Perfect Storm, Hoboken, New
Jersey: John Wiley & Sons, ISBN 978-0-470-15263-8
6. ^ Gold Standards and the Real Bills Doctrine in US Monetary Policy,
Richard H Timberlake, published in Econ Journal Watch, August
2005 --
http://www.econjournalwatch.org/pdf/TimberlakeIntellectualTyrannyAugust2005.pdf
7. ^ Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar
publishing, 2003, ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 11
8. ^ Ben Bernanke, "Non-monetary effects of the financial crisis in the
propagation of the Great Depression", (1983) American Economic
Review . Am 73#3 257–76.
9. ^ Friedman 2007, p.15.
10. ^ (Samuelson 1948, p. 353)
11. ^ Samuelson, Friedman, and monetary policy
(http://krugman.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/12/14/samuelson-friedmanand-
monetary-policy/), Paul Krugman, New York Times Blog,
December 14, 2009
12. ^ Murray Rothbard, America's Great Depression (Ludwig von Mises
Institute, 2000), pp. 159-163.
13. ^ Rothbard, America's Great Depression, pp. 19-21"
14. ^ Rothbard, A History of Money and Banking in the United States,
pp.293-294.
15. ^ White, Clash of Economic Ideas, p. 94. See alsoWhite, Lawrence
(2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?”.
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751–768.
doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x (http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%
2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
16. ^ F. A. Hayek, interviewed by Diego Pizano July, 1979 published in:
Diego Pizano, Conversations with Great Economists: Friedrich A.
Hayek, John Hicks, Nicholas Kaldor, Leonid V. Kantorovich, Joan
Robinson, Paul A.Samuelson, Jan Tinbergen (Jorge Pinto Books,
2009).
17. ^ http://www.marxists.org/archive/corey/1934/decline/index.html
18. ^ [1]
(http://www.johnmauldin.com/images/uploads/pdf/mwo071811.pdf)
Several graphs of total debt to GDP can be found on the Internet.
19. ^ a b c d e f g Jerome, Harry (1934). Mechanization in Industry,
National Bureau of Economic Research
20. ^ Hansen, Alvin (1939). “Economic Progress and Declining
Population Growth”. American Economic Review' 29 (March)
21. ^ a b c Fisher, Irving (October 1933). “The Debt-Deflation Theory of
Great Depressions”. Econometrica (The Econometric Society) 1 (4):
337–357. doi:10.2307/1907327 (http://dx.doi.org/10.2307%
2F1907327). JSTOR 1907327 (http://www.jstor.org/stable/1907327).
22. ^ Fortune, Peter (Sept-Oct, 2000). “Margin Requirements, Margin
Loans, and Margin Rates: Practice and Principles - analysis of history
of margin credit regulations - Statistical Data
Included” (http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m3937/is_2000_Sept-
Oct/ai_80855422/pg_3/?tag=content;col1). New England Economic
Review.
23. ^ a b “Bank Failures
(http://www.livinghistoryfarm.org/farminginthe30s/money_08.html)”.
Living History Farm. 2008年5月22日閲覧。
24. ^ "Friedman and Schwartz, Monetary History of the United States",
352
25. ^ Bernanke, Ben S (June 1983). “Non-Monetary Effects of the
Financial Crisis in the Propagation of the Great Depression”. The
American Economic Review (The American Economic Association)
73 (3): 257–276. JSTOR 1808111
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/1808111).
26. ^ Mishkin, Fredric (December 1978). “The Household Balance and
the Great Depression”. Journal of Economic History 38 (04): 918–37.
doi:10.1017/S0022050700087167 (http://dx.doi.org/10.1017%
2FS0022050700087167).
27. ^ a b Bell, Spurgeon (1940). Productivity, Wages and National
Income , The Institute of Economics of the Brookings Institution
28. ^ [|Yergin, Daniel
(https://www.cera.com/aspx/cda/public1/about/expertise/personPopup.aspx?
iAuthorPK=112)] (1992). The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money $
Power.
29. ^ a b Beaudreau, Bernard C. (1996). Mass Production, the Stock
Market Crash and the Great Depression. New York, Lincoln,
Shanghi: Authors Choice Press.
30. ^ “Hours of Work in U.S. History
(http://eh.net/encyclopedia/article/whaples.work.hours.us)” (2010年).
2012年8月28日閲覧。
31. ^ Whaples, Robert (1991, June). The Shortening of the American
Work Week: An Economic and Historical Analysis of Its Context,
Causes, and Consequences, The Journal of Economic History, Vol.
51, No. 2; pp. 454-457
32. ^ “Technological Change and Economic Growth the Interwar Years
and the 1990s (http://www.econ.yale.edu/seminars/echist/eh04/field-
041006.pdf)” (2004年). 2012年8月28日閲覧。
33. ^ Hubbert, M. King (1940).
http://www.scribd.com/doc/22289589/Man-Hours-and-Distribution-
M-King-Hubbert Man Hours and Distribution , Derived from Man
Hours: A Declining Quantity, Technocracy, Series A, No. 8, August
1936 (http://www.)
34. ^ Jerome, Harry (1934). Mechanization in Industry, National Bureau
of Economic Research<For the several industries studied industry
expansion offset most of the productivity gains that would otherwise
resulted in many more job losses than actually occurred. To prevent
rising unemployment the laid off workers would have to have
changed industries, but it was noted that even if workers were
successful at such a change the time typically took 18 months or
more. The employment statistics for the 1930 census reflect
conditions after the start of the depression so the actual employment
situation prior to the depression is unknown.>
35. ^ Stiglitz, Joseph (2011), “The Book of
Jobs” (http://www.vanityfair.com/politics/2012/01/stiglitzdepression-
201201), Vanity Fair 23/12/2011閲覧。
36. ^ Ayres, R. U.; Ayres, L. W.; Warr, B. (2002). Exergy, Power and
Work in the U. S. Economy 1900-1998, Insead’s Center For the
Management of Environmental Resources, 2002/52/EPS/CMER
(http://terra2000.free.fr/downloads/expowork.pdf)<Fig. 4 in
Appendix>From one-sixth to one-quarter of all land had been used to
grow animal feed.
37. ^ General Motors and the Decline of Streetcars
(http://debunkportland.com/printables/TQOrigin.pdf)
38. ^ David M. Kennedy, 'Freedom From Fear, The American People in
Depression and War 1929 - 1945, Oxford University Press, 1999,
ISBN 0-19-503834-7, p. 122, 123
39. ^ Dorfman,1959
40. ^ Allgoewer, Elisabeth (May 2002). “Underconsumption theories and
Keynesian economics. Interpretations of the Great
Depression” (http://www.vwa.unisg.ch/RePEc/usg/dp2002/dp0214allgoewer_ganz.pdf).
Discussion paper no. 2002-14.
41. ^ Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA
1890–1954, Hodder Education, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p.
108
42. ^ Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA
1890–1954, Hodder Education, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p.
108
43. ^ The Road to Plenty (1928)
44. ^ Eichengreen 1992, p.xi
45. ^ Bernanke 2002, p.80
46. ^ Gold Standards and the Real Bills Doctrine in U.S. Monetary
Policy, RICHARD H. TIMBERLAKE
http://www.econjournalwatch.org/pdf/TimberlakeIntellectualTyrannyAugust2005.pdf
47. ^ Parker, p.49.
48. ^ White, 1990.
49. ^ Protectionism and the Great Depression
(http://krugman.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/11/30/protectionism-andthe-
great-depression/), Paul Krugman, New York Times, November
30, 2009
50. ^ a b The protectionist temptation: Lessons from the Great Depression
for today (http://voxeu.org/index.php?q=node/3280), VOX, Barry
Eichengreen, Douglas Irwin, 17 March 2009
51. ^ Hansen, Alvin (1939). Economic Progress and Declining
Population Growth. ISBN 978-1162557823<Originally printed in a
journal. Reprinted 2004, 2010>
52. ^ a b Barber, Clarence L. "On the Origins of the Great Depression",
Southern Economic Journal, January, 1978, 44(3), pp. 432-456.
53. ^ Barber, Clarence L. "On the Origins of the Great Depression",
Southern Economic Journal, January 1978, 44(3), pp. 432-456. See
also Bolch, B. W. and J. D. Pilgrim, "A Reappraisal of Some Factors
Associated with Fluctuations in the United States in the Interwar
Period." Southern Economic Journal, January 1973, pp. 327-44.
54. ^ Longman, Philip (2004). The Empty Cradle: How Falling
Birthrates Threaten World Prosperity And What to Do About It.
p. 87. ISBN 0-465-05050-6.
55. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 1
56. ^ White, Lawrence (2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the
Great Depression?”. Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751
–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x
(http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
57. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 1
58. ^ Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar
publishing, 2003, ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 9
59. ^ Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar
publishing, 2003, ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 9
60. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 1
61. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 33
62. ^ White, Lawrence (2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the
Great Depression?”. Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751
–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x
(http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
63. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 1
64. ^ White, Lawrence (2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the
Great Depression?”. Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751
–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x
(http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
65. ^ Lawrence White, The Clash of Economic Ideas: The Great Policy
Debates and Experiments of the 20th Century (Cambridge University
Press), p. 94.
66. ^ White, Clash of Economic Ideas, p. 94. See alsoWhite, Lawrence
(2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?”.
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751–768.
doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x (http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%
2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
67. ^ F. A. Hayek, interviewed by Diego Pizano July, 1979 published in:
Diego Pizano, Conversations with Great Economists: Friedrich A.
Hayek, John Hicks, Nicholas Kaldor, Leonid V. Kantorovich, Joan
Robinson, Paul A.Samuelson, Jan Tinbergen (Jorge Pinto Books,
2009).
68. ^ Herbert Hoover, Father of the New Deal, by Steven Horwitz
http://www.cato.org/pubs/bp/bp122.pdf
69. ^ Does ‘Austerity’ Work? by David Weinberger
http://blog.heritage.org/2011/10/27/does-austerity-work/
70. ^ Lessons from Economic Recessions II- The Forgotten Recession of
1920 http://conservativehideout.com/wordpress/2011/07/05/lessonsfrom-
economic-recessions-ii-the-forgotten-recession-of-1920/
71. ^ The Growth of the Federal Government in the 1920s, Randall G.
Holcombe http://www.cato.org/pubs/journal/cj16n2-2.html
72. ^ Hoover's Attack on Laissez-Faire, by Murray Rothbard
http://mises.org/daily/2902#2
73. ^ The Concise Encyclopedia of Economics: The Great Depression
http://www.econlib.org/library/Enc/GreatDepression.html
74. ^ http://www.cato.org/pubs/bp/bp122.pdf
参考文献
◾ Secular Stagnation and Great Depression, R. L. Norman, Jr. (http://www.secularstagnation.com)
◾ Dorfman, Joseph (1959). Economic Mind in American Civilizationvol 4 and 5 cover the ideas of all American economists of 1918-
1933.
◾ Friedman, Milton and Anna Jacobson Schwartz, A Monetary History of the United States, 1867-1960 (1963)
◾ Keen, Steve 2001. Debunking Economics Pluto Press Australia Limited Sydney, Australia
◾ Meltzer, Allan H. 2003 A History of the Federal Reserve Volume I: 1913-1951 Chicago University Press, Chicago, IL
◾ Rothbard, Murray N. 1963 America's Great Depression D. Van Nostrand Company, Princeton, NJ
◾ Rothbard, Murray N. A History of Money and Banking in the United States: The Colonial Era to World War II (2002)
◾ Samuelson, Paul (1948). Economics.
◾ White, Eugene N. "The Stock Market Boom and Crash of 1929 Revisited" Journal of Economic Perspectives, Vol. 4, No. 2 (Spring,
1990), pp. 67–83; examines different theories
関連文献
世界
◾ Ambrosius, G. and W. Hibbard. A Social and Economic History of Twentieth-Century Europe (1989)
◾ Bordo, Michael, and Anna J. Schwartz, eds. A Retrospective on the Classical Gold Standard, 1821–1931 (1984) (National Bureau of
Economic Research Conference Report)
◾ Bordo, Michael et al. eds. The Gold Standard and Related Regimes: Collected Essays (1999)
◾ Brown, Ian. The Economies of Africa and Asia in the Inter-War Depression (1989)
◾ Davis, Joseph S. The World Between the Wars, 1919-39: An Economist's View (1974)
◾ Eichengreen, Barry. Golden Fetters: The Gold Standard and the Great Depression, 1919–1939 (NBER Series on Long-Term Factors
in Economic Development), 1996, ISBN 0-19-510113-8
◾ Eichengreen, Barry, and Marc Flandreau, eds. The Gold Standard in Theory and History (1997)
◾ Feinstein, Charles H. The European Economy Between the Wars (1997)
◾ Garraty, John A. The Great Depression: An Inquiry into the Causes, Course, and Consequences of the Worldwide Depression of the
Nineteen-Thirties, as Seen by Contemporaries and in Light of History (1986)
◾ Garraty, John A. Unemployment in History (1978)
◾ Garside, William R. Capitalism in Crisis: International Responses to the Great Depression (1993)
◾ Haberler, Gottfried. The World Economy, Money, and the Great Depression 1919-1939 (1976)
◾ Hall, Thomas E. and J. David Ferguson. The Great Depression: An International Disaster of Perverse Economic Policies (1998)
◾ Kaiser, David E. Economic Diplomacy and the Origins of the Second World War: Germany, Britain, France and Eastern Europe,
1930-1939 (1980)
◾ Kindleberger, Charles P. The World in Depression, 1929-1939 (1983);
◾ Tipton, F. and R. Aldrich. An Economic and Social History of Europe, 1890–1939 (1987)
◾ Barber, Clarence Lyle (University of Manitoba) "On the Origins of the Great Depression" (1978)
アメリカ合衆国
◾ Ben S. Bernanke. Essays on the Great Depression (2000)
◾ Bernstein, Michael A. The Great Depression: Delayed Recovery and Economic Change in America, 1929-1939 (1989) focus on lowgrowth
and high-growth industries
◾ Bordo, Michael D., Claudia Goldin, and Eugene N. White, eds. The Defining Moment: The Great Depression and the American
Economy in the Twentieth Century (1998). Advanced economic history.
◾ Chandler, Lester. America's Greatest Depression (1970). economic history overview.
◾ De Long, Bradford. Liquidation Cycles and the Great Depression (1991)
◾ Jensen, Richard J. "The Causes and Cures of Unemployment in the Great Depression," Journal of Interdisciplinary History 19 (1989)
553-83. online at JSTOR in most academic libraries
◾ McElvaine, Robert S. The Great Depression (2nd ed 1993) social history
◾ Mitchell, Broadus. Depression Decade: From New Era through New Deal, 1929-1941 (1964), standard economic history overview.
◾ Parker, Randall E. Reflections on the Great Depression (2002) interviews with 11 leading economists
◾ Salsman, Richard M. “The Cause and Consequences of the Great Depression” in The Intellectual Activist, ISSN 0730-2355. Mr.
Salsman argues that the Great Depression was fundamentally caused by statist government policy.
◾ Singleton, Jeff. The American Dole: Unemployment Relief and the Welfare State in the Great Depression (2000)
(http://www.questia.com/PM.qst?a=o&d=24419587)
◾ Warren, Harris Gaylord. Herbert Hoover and the Great Depression (1959).
連邦準備制度の役割
◾ Chandler, Lester V. American Monetary Policy, 1928-41. (1971).
◾ Epstein, Gerald and Thomas Ferguson. "Monetary Policy, Loan Liquidation and Industrial Conflict: Federal Reserve System Open
Market Operations in 1932." Journal of Economic History 44 (December 1984): 957-84. in JSTOR
◾ Kubik, Paul J., "Federal Reserve Policy during the Great Depression: The Impact of Interwar Attitudes regarding Consumption and
Consumer Credit." Journal of Economic Issues. Vo: 30. Issue: 3. Publication Year: 1996. pp 829+.
◾ Mayhew, Anne. "Ideology and the Great Depression: Monetary History Rewritten." Journal of Economic Issues 17 (June 1983): 353-
60.
◾ Meltzer, Allan H. A History of the Federal Reserve, Volume 1: 1913-1951 (2004) the standard scholarly history
◾ Steindl, Frank G. Monetary Interpretations of the Great Depression. (1995).
◾ Temin, Peter. Did Monetary Forces Cause the Great Depression? (1976).
◾ Wicker, Elmus R. "A Reconsideration of Federal Reserve Policy during the 1920-1921 Depression," Journal of Economic History
(1966) 26: 223-238, in JSTOR
◾ Wicker, Elmus. Federal Reserve Monetary Policy, 1917-33. (1966).
◾ Wells, Donald R. The Federal Reserve System: A History (2004)
◾ Wueschner, Silvano A. Charting Twentieth-Century Monetary Policy: Herbert Hoover and Benjamin Strong, 1917-1927 Greenwood
Press. (1999)
Template:GreatDepr nav
「https://ja.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=世界恐慌の原因&oldid=60902860」から取得
カテゴリ: 翻訳中途 - 2016年2月1920年代世界恐慌経済恐慌金本位制出来事の原因
◾ 最終更新 2016年8月25日 (木) 17:12 （日時は個人設定で未設定ならばUTC）。
◾ テキストはクリエイティブ・コモンズ表示-継承ライセンスの下で利用可能です。追加の条件が適用される場合があります。
詳細は利用規約を参照してください。
USA annual real GDP from 1910 to 1960, with the years of the Great
Depression (1929–39) highlighted
Money supply decreased a lot between Black Tuedsay and the Bank
Holiday in March 1933 when there was massive bank runs across the
United States.
Causes of the Great Depression
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
The causes of the Great Depression in the early 20th century have been extensively discussed
by economists and remain a matter of active debate. They are part of the larger debate about
economic crises.
The specific economic events that took place during the Great Depression have been studied
thoroughly: a deflation in asset and commodity prices, dramatic drops in demand and credit, and
disruption of trade, ultimately resulting in widespread unemployment (over 13 million people
were unemployed by 1932) and hence poverty. However, historians lack consensus in
determining the causal relationship between various events and the government economic policy
in causing or ameliorating the Depression. The initial stock market crash triggered a "panic selloff"
that made the stock market go even lower.
Although a common belief is that the Great Depression was triggered by the 1929 crash of the
stock market, the stock market in 1929 had reached record fundamental valuations in spite of
deteriorating economic conditions such as rising unemployment, overproduction (excess
capacity), underconsumption and high debt. The timing of the crash coincided with news that the
proposed import tariff on manufactured products was losing support in Congress.[1]
Current theories may be broadly classified into two main points of view and several heterodox
points of view.
First, there are demand-driven theories, from Keynesian and institutional economists who argue
that the depression was caused by a widespread loss of confidence that led to underconsumption.
The demand-driven theories argue that the financial crisis following the 1929 crash led to a
sudden and persistent reduction in consumption and investment spending.[2] Once panic and
deflation set in, many people believed they could avoid further losses by keeping clear of the
markets. Holding money therefore became profitable as prices dropped lower and a given amount
of money bought ever more goods, exacerbating the drop in demand.
Second, there are the monetarists, who believe that the Great Depression started as an ordinary
recession, but that significant policy mistakes by monetary authorities (especially the Federal
Reserve) caused a shrinking of the money supply which greatly exacerbated the economic
situation, causing a recession to descend into the Great Depression. Related to this explanation are those who point to debt deflation causing those who borrow to owe
ever more in real terms.
There are also various heterodox theories that reject the explanations of the Keynesians and monetarists. Some new classical macroeconomists have argued that
various labor market policies imposed at the start caused the length and severity of the Great Depression. The Austrian school of economics focuses on the
macroeconomic effects of money supply and how central banking decisions can lead to malinvestment. Marxian economists view the Great Depression, with all other
economic crises, as a symptom of the classism and instability inherent in the capitalist model.
Contents
◾ 1 General theoretical reasoning
◾ 1.1 Mainstream theories
◾ 1.1.1 Keynesian
◾ 1.1.2 Monetarist
◾ 1.1.3 Additional modern nonmonetary explanations
◾ 1.1.3.1 Debt deflation
◾ 1.1.3.2 Expectations hypothesis
◾ 1.2 Heterodox theories
◾ 1.2.1 Austrian School
◾ 1.2.2 Marxian
◾ 2 Specific theories of cause
◾ 2.1 Non-debt deflation
◾ 2.2 Productivity or technology shock
◾ 2.3 Disparities in wealth and income
◾ 2.4 Gold Standard system
◾ 2.5 Financial institution structures
◾ 2.6 Protectionism
◾ 2.7 International Debt Structure
◾ 2.8 Population dynamics
◾ 3 Role of economic policy
◾ 3.1 Calvin Coolidge (1923–29)
◾ 3.2 Leave-it-alone liquidationism (1929–33)
◾ 3.2.1 Overview
◾ 3.2.2 Criticism
◾ 3.3 Herbert Hoover (1929–33)
◾ 3.3.1 Economic policy
◾ 3.3.2 Federal spending
◾ 3.3.3 Tax policy
◾ 3.4 Franklin Delano Roosevelt (1933–45)
◾ 3.4.1 Arguments for key to recovery
◾ 3.4.2 Arguments for prolongation of the Great Depression
◾ 4 See also
◾ 5 Notes
◾ 6 References
The Great Depression in a monetary
view.
◾ 7 Further reading
◾ 7.1 World
◾ 7.2 United States
◾ 7.3 Role of the United States Federal Reserve
General theoretical reasoning
The two classical competing theories of the Great Depression are the Keynesian (demand-driven) and the monetarist explanation. There are also various heterodox
theories that downplay or reject the explanations of the Keynesians and monetarists.
Economists and economic historians are almost evenly split as to whether the traditional monetary explanation that monetary forces were the primary cause of the
Great Depression is right, or the traditional Keynesian explanation that a fall in autonomous spending, particularly investment, is the primary explanation for the
onset of the Great Depression.[3] Today the controversy is of lesser importance since there is mainstream support for the debt deflation theory and the expectations
hypothesis that building on the monetary explanation of Milton Friedman and Anna Schwartz add non-monetary explanations.
There is consensus that the Federal Reserve System should have cut short the process of monetary deflation and banking collapse. If the FED had done that the
economic downturn would have been far less severe and much shorter.[4]
Mainstream theories
Keynesian
In his book The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money (1936), British economist John Maynard Keynes introduced concepts that were intended to help
explain the Great Depression. He argued that there are reasons why the self-correcting mechanisms that many economists claimed should work during a downturn
might not work.
One argument for a non-interventionist policy during a recession was that if consumption fell due to savings, the savings would cause the rate of interest to fall.
According to the classical economists, lower interest rates would lead to increased investment spending and demand would remain constant. However, Keynes argues
that there are good reasons why investment does not necessarily increase in response to a fall in the interest rate. Businesses make investments based on expectations
of profit. Therefore, if a fall in consumption appears to be long-term, businesses analyzing trends will lower expectations of future sales. Therefore, the last thing they
are interested in doing is investing in increasing future production, even if lower interest rates make capital inexpensive. In that case, the economy can be thrown into
a general slump due to a decline in consumption.[5] According to Keynes, this self-reinforcing dynamic is what occurred to an extreme degree during the Depression,
where bankruptcies were common and investment, which requires a degree of optimism, was very unlikely to occur. This view is often characterized by economists
as being in opposition to Say's Law.
The idea that reduced capital investment was a cause of the depression is a central theme in Secular stagnation theory.
Keynes argued that if the national government spent more money to recover the money spent by consumers and business firms, unemployment rates would fall. The
solution was for the Federal Reserve System to “create new money for the national government to borrow and spend” and to cut taxes rather than raising them, in
order for consumers to spend more, and other beneficial factors.[6] Hoover chose to do the opposite of what Keynes thought to be the solution and allowed the federal
government to raise taxes exceedingly to reduce the budget shortage brought upon by the depression. Keynes proclaimed that more workers could be employed by
decreasing interest rates, encouraging firms to borrow more money and make more products. Employment would prevent the government from having to spend any
more money by increasing the amount at which consumers would spend. Keynes’ theory was then confirmed by the length of the Great Depression within the United
States and the constant unemployment rate. Employment rates began to rise in preparation for World War II by increasing government spending. “In light of these
developments, the Keynesian explanation of the Great Depression was increasingly accepted by economists, historians, and politicians”.[6]
Monetarist
In their 1963 book A Monetary History of the United States, 1867–1960, Milton Friedman and Anna Schwartz laid out their
case for a different explanation of the Great Depression. Essentially, the Great Depression, in their view, was caused by the
fall of the money supply. Friedman and Schwartz write: "From the cyclical peak in August 1929 to a cyclical trough in March
1933, the stock of money fell by over a third." The result was what Friedman calls the "Great Contraction" — a period of
falling income, prices, and employment caused by the choking effects of a restricted money supply. Friedman and Schwartz
argue that people wanted to hold more money than the Federal Reserve was supplying. As a result, people hoarded money by
consuming less. This caused a contraction in employment and production since prices were not flexible enough to
immediately fall. The Fed's failure was in not realizing what was happening and not taking corrective action.[7]
After the Depression, the primary explanations of it tended to ignore the importance of the money supply. However, in the
monetarist view, the Depression was “in fact a tragic testimonial to the importance of monetary forces.”[8] In their view, the
failure of the Federal Reserve to deal with the Depression was not a sign that monetary policy was impotent, but that the
Federal Reserve implemented the wrong policies. They did not claim the Fed caused the depression, only that it failed to use
policies that might have stopped a recession from turning into a depression.
The U.S. economy during this period went through a number of cycles of boom and bust. The depressions often seemed to be set off by bank panics, the most
significant occurring in 1873, 1893, 1901, 1907, and 1920.[9] Before the 1913 establishment of the Federal Reserve, the banking system had dealt with these crises in
the U.S. (such as in the Panic of 1907) by suspending the convertibility of deposits into currency. Starting in 1893, there were growing efforts by financial institutions
and business men to intervene during these crises, providing liquidity to banks that were suffering runs. During the banking panic of 1907, an ad-hoc coalition
assembled by J. P. Morgan successfully intervened in this way, thereby cutting off the panic, which was likely the reason why the depression that would normally
have followed a banking panic did not happen this time. A call by some for a government version of this solution resulted in the establishment of the Federal Reserve.
[10]
But in 1928–32, the Federal Reserve did not act to provide liquidity to banks suffering runs. In fact, its policy contributed to the banking crisis by permitting a sudden
contraction of the money supply. During the Roaring Twenties, the central bank had set as its primary goal "price stability", in part because the governor of the New
York Federal Reserve, Benjamin Strong, was a disciple of Irving Fisher, a tremendously popular economist who popularized stable prices as a monetary goal. It had
kept the number of dollars at such an amount that prices of goods in society appeared stable. In 1928, Strong died, and with his death this policy ended, to be replaced
with a real bills doctrine requiring that all currency or securities have material goods backing them. This policy permitted the US money supply to fall by over a third
from 1929 to 1933.[11]
Crowd at New York's American Union
Bank during a bank run early in the Great
Depression.
Crowd gathering on Wall Street after the
1929 crash.
When this money shortage caused runs on banks, the Fed maintained its true bills policy, refusing to lend money to the banks in the way that had cut short the 1907
panic, instead allowing each to suffer a catastrophic run and fail entirely. This policy resulted in a series of bank failures in which one-third of all banks vanished.[12]
According to Ben Bernanke, the subsequent credit crunches led to waves of bankruptcies.[13] Friedman said that if a policy similar to 1907 had been followed during
the banking panic at the end of 1930, perhaps this would have stopped the vicious circle of the forced liquidation of assets at depressed prices. Consequently, the
banking panics of 1931, 1932, and 1933 might not have happened, just as suspension of convertibility in 1893 and 1907 had quickly ended the liquidity crises at the
time.”[14]
Monetarist explanations had been rejected in Samuelson's work Economics, writing "Today few economists regard Federal Reserve monetary policy as a panacea for
controlling the business cycle. Purely monetary factors are considered to be as much symptoms as causes, albeit symptoms with aggravating effects that should not be
completely neglected."[15] According to Keynesian economist Paul Krugman, the work of Friedman and Schwartz became dominant among mainstream economists
by the 1980s but should be reconsidered in light of Japan's Lost Decade of the 1990s.[16] The role of monetary policy in financial crises is in active debate regarding
the 2007–12 global financial crisis; see Causes of the 2007–12 global financial crisis.
Additional modern nonmonetary explanations
The monetary explanation has two weaknesses. First it is not able to explain why the demand for money was falling more rapidly than the supply during the initial
downturn in 1930-31.[17] Second it is not able to explain why in March 1933 a recovery took place although short term interest rates remained close to zero and the
Money supply was still falling. These questions are addressed by modern explanations that build on the monetary explanation of Milton Friedman and Anna
Schwartz but add non-monetary explanations.
Debt deflation
Total debt to GDP levels in the U.S. reached a high of just under 300% by the time of the Depression. This level of debt was
not exceeded again until near the end of the 20th century.[18]
Jerome (1934) gives an unattributed quote about finance conditions that allowed the great industrial expansion of the post
WW I period:
Probably never before in this country had such a volume of funds been available at such low rates for such a long
period.[19]
Furthermore, Jerome says that the volume of new capital issues increased at a 7.7% compounded annual rate from 1922
–29 at a time when the Standard Statistics Co.'s index of 60 high grade bonds yielded from 4.98% in 1923 to 4.47% in
1927.
There was also a real estate and housing bubble in the 1920s, especially in Florida, which burst in 1925. Alvin Hansen
stated that housing construction during the 1920s decade exceeded population growth by 25%.[20] See also:Florida land
boom of the 1920s
Irving Fisher argued that the predominant factor leading to the Great Depression was over-indebtedness and deflation.
Fisher tied loose credit to over-indebtedness, which fueled speculation and asset bubbles.[21] He then outlined nine factors
interacting with one another under conditions of debt and deflation to create the mechanics of boom to bust. The chain of
events proceeded as follows:
1. Debt liquidation and distress selling
2. Contraction of the money supply as bank loans are paid off
3. A fall in the level of asset prices
4. A still greater fall in the net worths of business, precipitating bankruptcies
5. A fall in profits
6. A reduction in output, in trade and in employment.
7. Pessimism and loss of confidence
8. Hoarding of money
9. A fall in nominal interest rates and a rise in deflation adjusted interest rates.[21]
During the Crash of 1929 preceding the Great Depression, margin requirements were only 10%.[22] Brokerage firms, in
other words, would lend $90 for every $10 an investor had deposited. When the market fell, brokers called in these loans,
which could not be paid back. Banks began to fail as debtors defaulted on debt and depositors attempted to withdraw
their deposits en masse, triggering multiple bank runs. Government guarantees and Federal Reserve banking regulations
to prevent such panics were ineffective or not used. Bank failures led to the loss of billions of dollars in assets.[23]
Outstanding debts became heavier, because prices and incomes fell by 20–50% but the debts remained at the same dollar
amount. After the panic of 1929, and during the first 10 months of 1930, 744 US banks failed. (In all, 9,000 banks failed
during the 1930s). By April 1933, around $7 billion in deposits had been frozen in failed banks or those left unlicensed
after the March Bank Holiday.[24]
Bank failures snowballed as desperate bankers called in loans, which the borrowers did not have time or money to repay.
With future profits looking poor, capital investment and construction slowed or completely ceased. In the face of bad
loans and worsening future prospects, the surviving banks became even more conservative in their lending.[23] Banks
built up their capital reserves and made fewer loans, which intensified deflationary pressures. A vicious cycle developed
and the downward spiral accelerated.
The liquidation of debt could not keep up with the fall of prices it caused. The mass effect of the stampede to liquidate increased the value of each dollar owed,
relative to the value of declining asset holdings. The very effort of individuals to lessen their burden of debt effectively increased it. Paradoxically, the more the
debtors paid, the more they owed.[21] This self-aggravating process turned a 1930 recession into a 1933 great depression.
Fisher's debt-deflation theory initially lacked mainstream influence because of the counter-argument that debt-deflation represented no more than a redistribution
from one group (debtors) to another (creditors). Pure re-distributions should have no significant macroeconomic effects.
Building on both the monetary hypothesis of Milton Friedman and Anna Schwartz as well as the debt deflation hypothesis of Irving Fisher, Ben Bernanke developed
an alternative way in which the financial crisis affected output. He builds on Fisher's argument that dramatic declines in the price level and nominal incomes lead to
increasing real debt burdens which in turn leads to debtor insolvency and consequently leads to lowered aggregate demand, a further decline in the price level then
results in a debt deflationary spiral. According to Bernanke, a small decline in the price level simply reallocates wealth from debtors to creditors without doing
damage to the economy. But when the deflation is severe falling asset prices along with debtor bankruptcies lead to a decline in the nominal value of assets on bank
balance sheets. Banks will react by tightening their credit conditions, that in turn leads to a credit crunch which does serious harm to the economy. A credit crunch
lowers investment and consumption and results in declining aggregate demand which additionally contributes to the deflationary spiral.[25][26][27]
Economist Steve Keen revived the Debt-Reset Theory after he accurately predicted the 2008 recession based on his analysis of the Great Depression, and recently
advised Congress to engage in debt-forgiveness or direct payments to citizens in order to avoid future financial events.[28] Some people support the Debt-Reset
Theory.[29][30][31]
Expectations hypothesis
Expectations have been a central element of macroeconomic models since the economic mainstream accepted the new neoclassical synthesis. While not rejecting that
it was inadequate demand that sustained the depression, according to Peter Temin, Barry Wigmore, Gauti B. Eggertsson and Christina Romer the key to recovery and
the end of the Great Depression was the successful management of public expectations. This thesis is based on the observation that after years of deflation and a very
severe recession, important economic indicators turned positive in March 1933, just as Franklin D. Roosevelt took office. Consumer prices turned from deflation to a
mild inflation, industrial production bottomed out in March 1933, investment doubled in 1933 with a turnaround in March 1933. There were no monetary forces to
explain that turnaround. Money supply was still falling and short term interest rates remained close to zero. Before March 1933, people expected a further deflation
and recession so that even interest rates at zero did not stimulate investment. But when Roosevelt announced major regime changes people began to expect inflation
and an economic expansion. With those expectations, interest rates at zero began to stimulate investment as planned. Roosevelt's fiscal and monetary policy regime
change helped to make his policy objectives credible. The expectation of higher future income and higher future inflation stimulated demand and investments. The
analysis suggests that the elimination of the policy dogmas of the gold standard, a balanced budget in times of crises and small government led endogenously to a
large shift in expectation that accounts for about 70–80 percent of the recovery of output and prices from 1933 to 1937. If the regime change had not happened and
the Hoover policy had continued, the economy would have continued its free fall in 1933, and output would have been 30 percent lower in 1937 than in 1933.
[32][33][34]
The recession of 1937–38, which slowed down economic recovery from the great depression, is explained by fears of the population that the moderate tightening of
the monetary and fiscal policy in 1937 would be first steps to a restoration of the pre March 1933 policy regime.[35]
Heterodox theories
Austrian School
Austrian economists argue that the Great Depression was the inevitable outcome of the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve during the 1920s. In their opinion,
the central bank's policy was an "easy credit policy" which led to an unsustainable credit-driven boom. In the Austrian view, the inflation of the money supply during
this period led to an unsustainable boom in both asset prices (stocks and bonds) and capital goods. By the time the Federal Reserve belatedly tightened monetary
policy in 1928, it was too late to avoid a significant economic contraction.[36] Austrians argue that government intervention after the crash of 1929 delayed the
market’s adjustment and made the road to complete recovery more difficult.[37][38]
Acceptance of the Austrian explanation of what primarily caused the Great Depression is compatible with either acceptance or denial of the Monetarist explanation.
Austrian economist Murray Rothbard, who wrote America's Great Depression (1963), rejected the Monetarist explanation. He criticized Milton Friedman's assertion
that the central bank failed to sufficiently increase the supply of money, claiming instead that the Federal Reserve did pursue an inflationary policy when, in 1932, it
purchased $1.1 billion of government securities, which raised its total holding to $1.8 billion. Rothbard says that despite the central bank's policies, "total bank
reserves only rose by $212 million, while the total money supply fell by $3 billion". The reason for this, he argues, is that the American populace lost faith in the
banking system and began hoarding more cash, a factor very much beyond the control of the Central Bank. The potential for a run on the banks caused local bankers
to be more conservative in lending out their reserves, which, according to Rothbard's argument, was the cause of the Federal Reserve's inability to inflate.[39]
Friedrich Hayek had criticised the FED and the Bank of England in the 1930s for not taking a more contractionary stance.[40] However, in 1975, Hayek admitted that
he made a mistake in the 1930s in not opposing the Central Bank's deflationary policy and stated the reason why he had been ambivalent: "At that time I believed that
a process of deflation of some short duration might break the rigidity of wages which I thought was incompatible with a functioning economy.[41] In 1978, he made it
clear that he agreed with the point of view of the Monetarists, saying, "I agree with Milton Friedman that once the Crash had occurred, the Federal Reserve System
pursued a silly deflationary policy", and that he was as opposed to deflation as he was to inflation.[42] Concordantly, economist Lawrence White argues that the
business cycle theory of Hayek is inconsistent with a monetary policy which permits a severe contraction of the money supply.
Hans Sennholz argued that most boom and busts that plagued the American economy in 1819-20, 1839–43, 1857–60, 1873–78, 1893–97, and 1920–21, were
generated by government creating a boom through easy money and credit, which was soon followed by the inevitable bust. The spectacular crash of 1929 followed
five years of reckless credit expansion by the Federal Reserve System under the Coolidge Administration. The passing of the Sixteenth Amendment, the passage of
The Federal Reserve Act, rising government deficits, the passage of the Hawley-Smoot Tariff Act, and the Revenue Act of 1932, exacerbated the crisis, prolonging it.
[43]
Marxian
Marxists generally argue that the Great Depression was the result of the inherent instability of the capitalist model.[44]
Specific theories of cause
Non-debt deflation
In addition to the debt deflation there was a component of productivity deflation that had been occurring since The Great Deflation of the last quarter of the 19th
century.[45] There may have also been a continuation of the correction to the sharp inflation caused by WW I.
Oil prices reached their all-time low in the early 1930s as production began from the East Texas Oil Field, the largest field ever found in the lower 48 states. With the
oil market oversupplied prices locally fell to below ten cents per barrel.[46]
Productivity or technology shock
In the first three decades of the 20th century productivity and economic output surged due in part to electrification, mass production and the increasing motorization
of transportation and farm machinery. Electrification and mass production techniques such as Fordism permanently lowered the demand for labor relative to
economic output.[1][47] By the late 1920s the resultant rapid growth in productivity and investment in manufacturing meant there was a considerable excess production
capacity.[48]
Sometime after the peak of the business cycle in 1923, more workers were displaced by productivity improvements than growth in the employment market could
meet, causing unemployment to slowly rise after 1925.[49] [1] Also, the work week fell slightly in the decade prior to the depression.[50][51][52] Wages did not keep up
with productivity growth, which led to the problem of underconsumption.[1]
Henry Ford and Edward A. Filene were among prominent businessmen who were concerned with overproduction and underconsumption. Ford doubled wages of his
workers in 1914. The over-production problem was also discussed in Congress, with Senator Reed Smoot proposing an import tariff, which became the Smoot
–Hawley Tariff Act. The Smoot–Hawley Tariff was enacted in June, 1930. The tariff was misguided because the U.S. had been running a trade account surplus
during the 1920s.[1]
Another effect of rapid technological change was that after 1910 the rate of capital investment slowed, primarily due to reduced investment in business structures.[47]
The depression led to additional large numbers of plant closings.[19]
It cannot be emphasized too strongly that the [productivity, output and employment] trends we are describing are long-time trends and were thoroughly
evident prior to 1929. These trends are in nowise the result of the present depression, nor are they the result of the World War. On the contrary, the
present depression is a collapse resulting from these long-term trends. — M. King Hubbert[53]
In the book Mechanization in Industry, whose publication was sponsored by the National Bureau of Economic Research, Jerome (1934) noted that whether
mechanization tends to increase output or displace labor depends on the elasticity of demand for the product.[19] In addition, reduced costs of production were not
always passed on to consumers. It was further noted that agriculture was adversely affected by the reduced need for animal feed as horses and mules were displaced
by inanimate sources of power following WW I. As a related point, Jerome also notes that the term "technological unemployment" was being used to describe the
labor situation during the depression.[19]
Some portion of the increased unemployment which characterized the post-War years in the United States may be attributed to the mechanization of
industries producing commodities of inelastic demand. — Fredrick C. Wells, 1934[19]
The dramatic rise in productivity of major industries in the U. S. and the effects of productivity on output, wages and the work week are discussed by a Brookings
Institution sponsored book.[45]
Corporations decided to lay off workers and reduced the amount of raw materials they purchased to manufacture their products. This decision was made to cut the
production of goods because of the amount of products that were not being sold.[6]
Joseph Stiglitz and Bruce Greenwald suggested that it was a productivity-shock in agriculture, through fertilizers, mechanization and improved seed, that caused the
drop in agricultural product prices. Farmers were forced off the land, further adding to the excess labor supply.[54]
The prices of agricultural products began to decline after WW I and eventually many farmers were forced out of business, causing the failure of hundreds of small
rural banks. Agricultural productivity resulting from tractors, fertilizers and hybrid corn was only part of the problem; the other problem was the change over from
horses and mules to internal combustion transportation. The horse and mule population began declining after WW 1, freeing up enormous quantities of land
previously used for animal feed.[19][55][56]
The rise of the internal combustion engine and increasing numbers of motorcars and buses also halted the growth of electric street railways.[57]
The years 1929 to 1941 had the highest total factor productivity growth in the history of the U. S., largely due to the productivity increases in public utilities,
transportation and trade.[58]
Disparities in wealth and income
Economists such as Waddill Catchings, William Trufant Foster, Rexford Tugwell, Adolph Berle (and later John Kenneth Galbraith), popularized a theory that had
some influence on Franklin D. Roosevelt.[59] This theory held that the economy produced more goods than consumers could purchase, because the consumers did not
have enough income.[60][61][62] According to this view, in the 1920s wages had increased at a lower rate than productivity growth, which had been high. Most of the
benefit of the increased productivity went into profits, which went into the stock market bubble rather than into consumer purchases. Thus workers did not have
enough income to absorb the large amount of capacity that had been added.[1]
According to this view, the root cause of the Great Depression was a global overinvestment while the level of wages and earnings from independent businesses fell
short of creating enough purchasing power. It was argued that government should intervene by an increased taxation of the rich to help make income more equal.
With the increased revenue the government could create public works to increase employment and ‘kick start’ the economy. In the USA the economic policies had
been quite the opposite until 1932. The Revenue Act of 1932 and public works programmes introduced in Hoover's last year as president and taken up by Roosevelt,
created some redistribution of purchasing power.[62][63]
The stock market crash made it evident that banking systems Americans were relying on were not dependable. Americans looked towards insubstantial banking units
for their own liquidity supply. As the economy began to fail, these banks were no longer able to support those who depended on their assets – they did not hold as
much power as the larger banks. During the depression, “three waves of bank failures shook the economy.”[64] The first wave came just when the economy was
heading in the direction of recovery at the end of 1930 and the beginning of 1931. The second wave of bank failures occurred “after the Federal Reserve System
raised the rediscount rate to staunch an outflow of gold”[64] around the end of 1931. The last wave, which began in the middle of 1932, was the worst and most
devastating, continuing “almost to the point of a total breakdown of the banking system in the winter of 1932–1933.”[64] The reserve banks led the United States into
an even deeper depression between 1931 and 1933, due to their failure to appreciate and put to use the powers they withheld – capable of creating money – as well as
the “inappropriate monetary policies pursued by them during these years”.[64]
Gold Standard system
New York stock market index
According to the gold standard theory of the Depression, the Depression was largely caused by the decision of most western nations after World War I to return to the
gold standard at the pre-war gold price. Monetary policy, according to this view, was thereby put into a deflationary setting that would over the next decade slowly
grind away at the health of many European economies.
This post-war policy was preceded by an inflationary policy during World War I, when many European nations abandoned the gold standard, forced by the enormous
costs of the war. This resulted in inflation because the supply of new money that was created was spent on war, not on investments in productivity to increase demand
that would have neutralized inflation. The view is that the quantity of new money introduced largely determines the inflation rate, and therefore, the cure to inflation
is to reduce the amount of new currency created for purposes that are destructive or wasteful, and do not lead to economic growth.
After the war, when America and the nations of Europe went back on the gold standard, most nations decided to return to the gold standard at the pre-war price.
When Britain, for example, passed the Gold Standard Act of 1925, thereby returning Britain to the gold standard, the critical decision was made to set the new price
of the Pound Sterling at parity with the pre-war price even though the pound was then trading on the foreign exchange market at a much lower price. At the time, this
action was criticized by John Maynard Keynes and others, who argued that in so doing, they were forcing a revaluation of wages without any tendency to
equilibrium. Keynes' criticism of Winston Churchill's form of the return to the gold standard implicitly compared it to the consequences of the Treaty of Versailles.
One of the reasons for setting the currencies at parity with the pre-war price was the prevailing opinion at that time that deflation was not a danger, while inflation,
particularly the inflation in the Weimar Republic, was an unbearable danger. Another reason was that those who had loaned in nominal amounts hoped to recover the
same value in gold that they had lent. Because of the reparations that Germany had to pay France, Germany began a credit-fueled period of growth in order to export
and sell enough goods abroad to gain gold to pay the reparations. The U.S., as the world's gold sink, loaned money to Germany to industrialize, which was then the
basis for Germany paying back France, and France paying back loans to the U.K. and the U.S. This arrangement was codified in the Dawes Plan.
In some cases, deflation can be hard on sectors of the economy such as agriculture, if they are deeply in debt at high interest rates and are unable to refinance, or that
are dependent upon loans to finance capital goods when low interest rates are not available. Deflation erodes the price of commodities while increasing the real
liability of debt. Deflation is beneficial to those with assets in cash, and to those who wish to invest or purchase assets or loan money.
More recent research, by economists such as Peter Temin, Ben Bernanke and Barry Eichengreen, has focused on the constraints policy makers were under at the time
of the Depression. In this view, the constraints of the inter-war gold standard magnified the initial economic shock and were a significant obstacle to any actions that
would ameliorate the growing Depression. According to them, the initial destabilizing shock may have originated with the Wall Street Crash of 1929 in the U.S., but
it was the gold standard system that transmitted the problem to the rest of the world.[65]
According to their conclusions, during a time of crisis, policy makers may have wanted to loosen monetary and fiscal policy, but such action would threaten the
countries’ ability to maintain their obligation to exchange gold at its contractual rate. The gold standard required countries to maintain high interest rates to attract
international investors who bought foreign assets with gold. Therefore, governments had their hands tied as the economies collapsed, unless they abandoned their
currency’s link to gold. Fixing the exchange rate of all countries on the gold standard ensured that the market for foreign exchange can only equilibrate through
interest rates. As the Depression worsened, many countries started to abandon the gold standard, and those that abandoned it earlier suffered less from deflation and
tended to recover more quickly.[66]
Richard Timberlake, economist of the free banking school and protégé of Milton Friedman, specifically addressed this stance in his paper Gold Standards and the
Real Bills Doctrine in U.S. Monetary Policy, wherein he argued that the Federal Reserve actually had plenty of lee-way under the gold standard, as had been
demonstrated by the price stability policy of New York Fed governor Benjamin Strong, between 1923 and 1928. But when Strong died in late 1928, the faction that
took over dominance of the Fed advocated a real bills doctrine, where all money had to be represented by physical goods. This policy, forcing a 30% deflation of the
dollar that inevitably damaged the US economy, is stated by Timberlake as being arbitrary and avoidable, the existing gold standard having been capable of
continuing without it:
This shift in control was decisive. In accordance with the precedent Strong had set in promoting a stable price level policy without heed to any golden fetters,
real bills proponents could proceed equally unconstrained in implementing their policy ideal. System policy in 1928–29 consequently shifted from price level
stabilization to passive real bills. “The” gold standard remained where it had been—nothing but formal window dressing waiting for an opportune time to
reappear.[67]
Financial institution structures
Economic historians (especially Friedman and Schwartz) emphasize the importance of numerous
bank failures. The failures were mostly in rural America. Structural weaknesses in the rural
economy made local banks highly vulnerable. Farmers, already deeply in debt, saw farm prices
plummet in the late 1920s and their implicit real interest rates on loans skyrocket.
Their land was already over-mortgaged (as a result of the 1919 bubble in land prices), and crop
prices were too low to allow them to pay off what they owed. Small banks, especially those tied to
the agricultural economy, were in constant crisis in the 1920s with their customers defaulting on
loans because of the sudden rise in real interest rates; there was a steady stream of failures among
these smaller banks throughout the decade.
The city banks also suffered from structural weaknesses that made them vulnerable to a shock.
Some of the nation's largest banks were failing to maintain adequate reserves and were investing
heavily in the stock market or making risky loans. Loans to Germany and Latin America by New
York City banks were especially risky. In other words, the banking system was not well prepared
to absorb the shock of a major recession.
Economists have argued that a liquidity trap might have contributed to bank failures.
Economists and historians debate how much responsibility to assign the Wall Street Crash of 1929. The timing was right; the magnitude of the shock to expectations
of future prosperity was high. Most analysts believe the market in 1928–29 was a "bubble" with prices far higher than justified by fundamentals. Economists agree
that somehow it shared some blame, but how much no one has estimated. Milton Friedman concluded, "I don't doubt for a moment that the collapse of the stock
market in 1929 played a role in the initial recession".[68]
The idea of owning government bonds initially became ideal to investors when Liberty Loan drives encouraged this possession in America during World War I. This
strive for dominion persisted into the 1920s. After World War I, the United States became the world’s creditor and was depended upon by many foreign nations.
“Governments from around the globe looked to Wall Street for loans”.[69] Investors then started to depend on these loans for further investments. Chief counsel of the
Senate Bank Committee, Ferdinand Pecora, disclosed that National City executives were also dependent on loans from a special bank fund as a safety net for their
stock losses while American banker, Albert Wiggin, “made millions selling short his own bank shares”.[69]
Economist David Hume stated that the economy became imbalanced as the recession spread on an international scale. The cost of goods remained too high for too
long during a time where there was less international trade. Policies set in selected countries to “maintain the value of their currency” resulted in an outcome of bank
failures.[70] Governments that continued to follow the gold standard were led into bank failure, meaning that it was the governments and central bankers that
contributed as a stepping stool into the depression.
The debate has three sides: one group says the crash caused the depression by drastically lowering expectations about the future and by removing large sums of
investment capital; a second group says the economy was slipping since summer 1929 and the crash ratified it; the third group says that in either scenario the crash
could not have caused more than a recession. There was a brief recovery in the market into April 1930, but prices then started falling steadily again from there, not
reaching a final bottom until July 1932. This was the largest long-term U.S. market decline by any measure. To move from a recession in 1930 to a deep depression
in 1931–32, entirely different factors had to be in play.[71]
Protectionism
Protectionism, such as the Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act, is often indicted as a cause of the Great Depression, with countries enacting protectionist policies yielding a
beggar thy neighbor result.[72][73] The Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act was especially harmful to agriculture because it caused farmers to default on their loans. This event
may have worsened or even caused the ensuing bank runs in the Midwest and West that caused the collapse of the banking system. A petition signed by over 1,000
economists was presented to the U.S. government warning that the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act would bring disastrous economic repercussions; however, this did not
stop the act from being signed into law.
Governments around the world took various steps into spending less money on foreign goods such as: “imposing tariffs, import quotas, and exchange
controls” (Eichengreen, B.). These restrictions formed a lot of tension between trade nations, causing a major deduction during the depression. Not all countries
enforced the same measures of protectionism. Some countries raised tariffs drastically and enforced severe restrictions on foreign exchange transactions, while other
countries condensed “trade and exchange restrictions only marginally”.[74]
“Countries that remained on the gold standard, keeping currencies fixed, were more likely to restrict foreign trade.” These countries became more competitive and
“resorted to protectionist policies to strengthen the balance of payments and limit gold losses.” They hoped that these restrictions and depletions would lead them
towards economic recovery. On the other hand, countries that chose to alleviate the gold standard, allowing fluidity in their currencies, experienced economic
recovery and “benefited from gold inflows”.[74]
There were three options left that could lead economies back to recovery. These options were: “wage and price deflation to restore external and internal balance at the
current gold parity; trade and payments restrictions to limit spending on imports and reduce gold outflows; or abandoning the gold standard and allowing the
exchange rate to depreciate”.[74]
Some economists argue that protectionism was not a cause but a reaction to the depression,[73] with protectionism policies being adopted by countries holding to the
gold standard rather than having floating exchange rates: countries on the gold standard could not cut interest rates or act as lender of last resort because they would
run out of gold, while countries off the gold standard could cut interest rates and print fiat money. In this interpretation, protectionism served to change the terms of
trade for countries whose monetary policy was constrained by the gold standard.
International Debt Structure
When the war came to an end in 1918, all European nations that had been allied with the U.S. owed large sums of money to American banks, sums much too large to
be repaid out of their shattered treasuries. This is one reason why the Allies had insisted (to the consternation of Woodrow Wilson) on demanding reparation
payments from Germany and Austria–Hungary. Reparations, they believed, would provide them with a way to pay off their own debts. However, Germany and
Austria-Hungary were themselves in deep economic trouble after the war; they were no more able to pay the reparations than the Allies were able to pay their debts.
The debtor nations put strong pressure on the U.S. in the 1920s to forgive the debts, or at least reduce them. The American government refused. Instead, U.S. banks
began making large loans to the nations of Europe. Thus, debts (and reparations) were being paid only by augmenting old debts and piling up new ones. In the late
1920s, and particularly after the American economy began to weaken after 1929, the European nations found it much more difficult to borrow money from the U.S.
At the same time, high U.S. tariffs were making it much more difficult for them to sell their goods in U.S. markets. Without any source of revenue from foreign
exchange to repay their loans, they began to default.
Beginning late in the 1920s, European demand for U.S. goods began to decline. That was partly because European industry and agriculture were becoming more
productive, and partly because some European nations (most notably Weimar Germany) were suffering serious financial crises and could not afford to buy goods
overseas. However, the central issue causing the destabilization of the European economy in the late 1920s was the international debt structure that had emerged in
the aftermath of World War I.
The high tariff walls such as the Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act critically impeded the payment of war debts. As a result of high U.S. tariffs, only a sort of cycle kept the
reparations and war-debt payments going. During the 1920s, the former allies paid the war-debt installments to the U.S. chiefly with funds obtained from German
reparations payments, and Germany was able to make those payments only because of large private loans from the U.S. and Britain. Similarly, U.S. investments
abroad provided the dollars, which alone made it possible for foreign nations to buy U.S. exports.
The Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act was instituted by Senator Reed Smoot and Representative Willis C. Hawley, and signed into law by President Hoover, to raise taxes on
American imports by about 20 percent during June 1930. This tax, which aided towards the exceedingly damaged American income and overproduction, was only
beneficial towards the Americans in having to spend less on foreign goods. In contrast, European trading nations frowned upon this tax increase, particularly since
the “United States was an international creditor and exports to the U.S. market were already declining”.[74] In response to the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act, some of
America’s primary producers and largest trading partner, Canada, chose to seek retribution by increasing the financial value of imported goods favoured by the
Americans.
In the scramble for liquidity that followed the 1929 stock market crash, funds flowed back from Europe to America, and Europe's fragile economies crumbled.
By 1931, the world was reeling from the worst depression of recent memory, and the entire structure of reparations and war debts collapsed.
Population dynamics
In 1939, prominent economist Alvin Hansen discussed the decline in population growth in relation to the Depression.[75] The same idea was discussed in a 1978
journal article by Clarence Barber, an economist at the University of Manitoba. Using "a form of the Harrod model" to analyze the Depression, Barber states:
In such a model, one would look for the origins of a serious depression in conditions which produced a decline in Harrod's natural rate of growth, more
specifically, in a decline in the rate of population and labour force growth and in the rate of growth of productivity or technical progress, to a level below
the warranted rate of growth.[76]
The Great Depression in an international context.
Barber says, while there is "no clear evidence" of a decline in "the rate of growth of productivity" during the 1920s, there is "clear evidence" the population growth
rate began to decline during that same period. He argues the decline in population growth rate may have caused a decline in "the natural rate of growth" which was
significant enough to cause a serious depression.[76]
Barber says a decline in the population growth rate is likely to affect the demand for housing, and claims this is apparently what happened during the 1920s. He
concludes:
the rapid and very large decline in the rate of growth of non-farm households was clearly the major reason for the decline that occurred in residential
construction in the United States from 1926 on. And this decline, as Bolch and Pilgrim have claimed, may well have been the most important single
factor in turning the 1929 downturn into a major depression.[77]
The decline in housing construction that can be attributed to demographics has been estimated to range from 28% in 1933 to 38% in 1940.[78]
Among the causes of the decline in the population growth rate during the 1920s were a declining birth rate after 1910[79] and reduced immigration. The decline in
immigration was largely the result of legislation in the 1920s placing greater restrictions on immigration. In 1921, Congress passed the Emergency Quota Act,
followed by the Immigration Act of 1924.
Factors that majorly contributed to the failing of the economy since 1925, was a decrease in both residential and non-residential buildings being constructed. It was
the debt as a result of the war, less families being formed, and an imbalance of mortgage payments and loans in 1928–29 that mainly contributed to the decline in the
amount of houses being built. This caused the populate growth rate to decelerate. Though non-residential units continued to be built “at a high rate throughout the
decade”, the demands for such units were actually very low[64]
Role of economic policy
Calvin Coolidge (1923–29)
There is an ongoing debate between historians as to what extent President Calvin Coolidge's laissez-faire hands-off attitude has contributed to the Great Depression.
Despite a growing rate of bank failures he did not heed voices that predicted the lack of banking regulation as potentially dangerous. He did not listen to members of
Congress warning that stock speculation had gone too far and he ignored criticisms that workers did not participate sufficiently in the prosperity of the Roaring
Twenties.[80]
Leave-it-alone liquidationism (1929–33)
Overview
From the point of view of today's mainstream schools of economic thought, government
should strive to keep some broad nominal aggregate on a stable growth path (for
proponents of new classical macroeconomics and monetarism, the measure is the nominal
money supply; for Keynesian economists it is the nominal aggregate demand itself).
During a depression the central bank should pour liquidity into the banking system and the
government should cut taxes and accelerate spending in order to keep the nominal money
stock and total nominal demand from collapsing.[81]
The United States government and the Federal Reserve did not do that during the 1929-32
slide into the Great Depression[81] The existence of "liquidationism" played a key part in
motivating public policy decisions not to fight the gathering Great Depression. An
increasingly common view among economic historians is that the adherence of some
Federal Reserve policymakers to the liquidationist thesis led to disastrous consequences.
[82] Regarding the policies of President Hoover, economists Barry Eichengreen and J.
Bradford DeLong point out that the Hoover administration’s fiscal policy was guided by
liquidationist economists and policy makers, as Hoover tried to keep the federal budget
balanced until 1932, when Hoover lost confidence in his Secretary of the Treasury
Andrew Mellon and replaced him.[83][84][85] Hoover wrote in his memoirs he did not side
with the liquidationists, but took the side of those in his cabinet with "economic responsibility", his Secretary of Commerce Robert P. Lamont and Secretary of
Agriculture Arthur M. Hyde, who advised the President to "use the powers of government to cushion the situation".[86] But at the same time he kept Andrew Mellon
as Secretary of the Treasury until February 1932. It was during 1932 that Hoover began to support more aggressive measures to combat the Depression.[87] In his
memoirs, President Hoover wrote bitterly about members of his Cabinet who had advised inaction during the downslide into the Great Depression:
The leave-it-alone liquidationists headed by Secretary of the Treasury Mellon ... felt that government must keep its hands off and let the slump liquidate
itself. Mr. Mellon had only one formula: "Liquidate labor, liquidate stocks, liquidate the farmers, liquidate real estate ... It will purge the rottenness out of
the system. High costs of living and high living will come down. People will work harder, live a more moral life. Values will be adjusted, and
enterprising people will pick up the wrecks from less competent people."[81]
Before the Keynesian Revolution, such a liquidationist theory was a common position for economists to take and was held and advanced by economists like Friedrich
Hayek, Lionel Robbins Joseph Schumpeter, Seymour Harris and others.[85] According to the liquidationists a depression is good medicine. The function of a
depression is to liquidate failed investments and businesses that have been made obsolete by technological development in order to release factors of production
(capital and labor) from unproductive uses. These can then be redeployed in other sectors of the technologically dynamic economy. They pointed to the short duration
of the Depression of 1920–21 was due to the policy of letting the liquidation occur and argued that the crisis had laid the groundwork for the prosperity of the later
1920s. They pushed for deflationary policies (which were already executed in 1921) which – in their opinion – would assist the release of capital and labor from
unproductive activities to lay the groundwork for a new economic boom. The liquidationists argued that even if self-adjustment of the economy took mass
bankruptcies, then so be it.[85] Postponing the liquidation process would only magnify the social costs. Schumpeter wrote that it[81]
... leads us to believe that recovery is sound only if it does come of itself. For any revival which is merely due to artificial stimulus leaves part of the
work of depressions undone and adds, to an undigested remnant of maladjustment, new maladjustment of its own which has to be liquidated in turn, thus
threatening business with another (worse) crisis ahead.
Unemployment rate in the US 1910–60, with the years of the
Great Depression (1929–39) highlighted; accurate data
begins in 1939.
Federal spending in millions of dollars (1910–60). The time
period of the Hoover administration, the New Deal and
World War II are highlighted.
Despite liquidationist expectations, a large proportion of the capital stock was not redeployed and vanished during the first years of the Great Depression. According
to a study by Olivier Blanchard and Lawrence Summers, the recession caused a drop of net capital accumulation to pre-1924 levels by 1933.[88]
Criticism
Economists such as John Maynard Keynes and Milton Friedman suggested that the do-nothing policy prescription which resulted from the liquidationist theory
contributed to deepening the Great Depression.[83] With the rhetoric of ridicule Keynes tried to discredit the liquidationist view in presenting Hayek, Robbins and
Schumpeter as
...austere and puritanical souls [who] regard [the Great Depression] ... as an inevitable and a desirable nemesis on so much "overexpansion" as they call
it ... It would, they feel, be a victory for the mammon of unrighteousness if so much prosperity was not subsequently balanced by universal bankruptcy.
We need, they say, what they politely call a 'prolonged liquidation' to put us right. The liquidation, they tell us, is not yet complete. But in time it will be.
And when sufficient time has elapsed for the completion of the liquidation, all will be well with us again...
Milton Friedman stated that at the University of Chicago such “dangerous nonsense” was never taught and that he understood why at Harvard —where such nonsense
was taught— bright young economists rejected their teachers' macroeconomics, and become Keynesians.[81] He wrote:
I think the Austrian business-cycle theory has done the world a great deal of harm. If you go back to the 1930s, which is a key point, here you had the
Austrians sitting in London, Hayek and Lionel Robbins, and saying you just have to let the bottom drop out of the world. You’ve just got to let it cure
itself. You can’t do anything about it. You will only make it worse.… I think by encouraging that kind of do-nothing policy both in Britain and in the
United States, they did harm.[83]
Economist Lawrence White, while acknowledging that Hayek and Robbins did not actively oppose the deflationary policy of the early 1930s, nevertheless challenges
the argument of Milton Friedman, J. Bradford DeLong et al. that Hayek was a proponent of liquidationism. White argues that the business cycle theory of Hayek and
Robbins (which later developed into Austrian business cycle theory in its present-day form) was actually not consistent with a monetary policy which permitted a
severe contraction of the money supply. Nevertheless, White says that at the time of the Great Depression Hayek "expressed ambivalence about the shrinking
nomimal income and sharp deflation in 1929–32".[89] In a talk in 1975, Hayek admitted the mistake he made over forty years earlier in not opposing the Central
Bank's deflationary policy and stated the reason why he had been "ambivalent": "At that time I believed that a process of deflation of some short duration might break
the rigidity of wages which I thought was incompatible with a functioning economy."[41] 1979 Hayek strongly criticized the Fed's contractionary monetary policy
early in the Depression and its failure to offer banks liquidity:
I agree with Milton Friedman that once the Crash had occurred, the Federal Reserve System pursued a silly deflationary policy. I am not only against
inflation but I am also against deflation. So, once again, a badly programmed monetary policy prolonged the depression.[42]
Herbert Hoover (1929–33)
Economic policy
Historians gave Hoover credit for working tirelessly to combat the depression and noted that he left
government prematurely aged. But his policies are rated as simply not far-reaching enough to address the
Great Depression. He was prepared to do something, but nowhere near enough.[90] Hoover was no
exponent of laissez-faire. But his principal philosophies were voluntarism, self-help, and rugged
individualism. He refused direct federal intervention. He believed that government should do more than
his immediate predecessors (Warren G. Harding, Calvin Coolidge) believed. But he was not willing to go
as far as Franklin D. Roosevelt later did. Therefore, he is described as the "first of the new presidents" and
"the last of the old".[91]
Hoovers first measures were based on voluntarism by businesses not to reduce their workforce or cut
wages. But businesses had little choice and wages were reduced, workers were laid off, and investments
postponed. Hoover urged bankers to set up the National Credit Corporation so that big banks could help
failing banks survive. But bankers were reluctant to invest in failing banks, and the National Credit
Corporation did almost nothing to address the problem.[92] In 1932 Hoover reluctantly established the
Reconstruction Finance Corporation, a Federal agency with the authority to lend up to $2 billion to rescue
banks and restore confidence in financial institutions. But $2 billion was not enough to save all the banks, and bank runs and bank failures continued.[93]
Federal spending
J. Bradford DeLong explained that Hoover would have been a budget cutter in normal times and
continuously wanted to balance the budget. Hoover held the line against powerful political forces that
sought to increase government spending after the Depression began for fully two and a half years. During
the first two years of the Depression (1929 and 1930) Hoover actually achieved budget surpluses of about
0.8% of gross domestic product (GDP). In 1931, when the recession significantly worsened and GDP
declined by 15%, the federal budget had only a small deficit of 0.6% of GDP. It was not until 1932 (when
GDP declined by 27% compared to 1929-level) that Hoover pushed for measures (Reconstruction
Finance Corporation, Federal Home Loan Bank Act, direct loans to fund state Depression relief
programs) that increased spending. But at the same time he pushed for the Revenue Act of 1932 that
massively increased taxes in order to balance the budget again.[87]
Uncertainty was a major factor, argued by several economists, that contributed to the worsening and
length of the depression. It was also said to be responsible “for the initial decline in consumption that
marks the” beginning of the Great Depression by economists Paul R. Flacco and Randall E. Parker.
Economist Ludwig Lachmann argues that it was pessimism that prevented the recovery and worsening of
the depression[94] President Hoover is said to have been blinded from what was right in front of him.
USA GDP annual pattern and long-term trend, 1920–40, in
billions of constant dollars.
Economist James Deusenberry argues economic imbalance was not only a result of World War I, but also of the structural changes made during the first quarter of
the Twentieth Century. He also states the branches of the nation’s economy became smaller, there was not much demand for housing, and the stock market crash
“had a more direct impact on consumption than any previous financial panic”[95]
Economist William A. Lewis describes the conflict between America and its primary producers:
Misfortunes (of the 1930’s) were due principally to the fact that the production of primary commodities after the war was somewhat in excess of
demand. It was this which, by keeping the terms of trade unfavourable to primary producers, kept the trade in manufactures so low, to the detriment of
some countries as the United Kingdom, even in the twenties, and it was this which pulled the world economy down in the early thirties….If primary
commodity markets had not been so insecure the crisis of 1929 would not have become a great depression....It was the violent fall of prices that was
deflationary.[96]
The stock market crash was not the first sign of the Great Depression. “Long before the crash, community banks were failing at the rate of one per day”.[69] It was the
development of the Federal Reserve System that misled investors in the ‘20s into relying on federal banks as a safety net. They were encouraged to continue buying
stocks and to overlook any of the fluctuations. Economist Roger Babson tried to warn the investors of the deficiency to come, but was ridiculed even as the economy
began to deteriorate during the summer of 1929. While England and Germany struggled under the strain on gold currencies after the war, economists were blinded by
an unsustainable ‘new economy' they sought to be considerably stable and successful.[69]
Since the United States decided to no longer comply with the gold standard, “the value of the dollar could change freely from day to day”.[70] Although this
imbalance on an international scale led to crisis, the economy within the nation remained stable.
The depression then affected all nations on an international scale. “The German mark collapsed when the chancellor put domestic politics ahead of sensible finance;
the bank of England abandoned the gold standard after a subsequent speculative attack; and the U.S. Federal Reserve raised its discount rate dramatically in October
1931 to preserve the value of the dollar”.[70] The Federal Reserve drove the American economy into an even deeper depression.
Tax policy
In 1929 the Hoover administration responded to the economic crises by temporarily lowering income tax rates and the corporate tax rate.[97] At the beginning of 1931,
tax returns showed a tremendous decline in income due to the economic downturn. Income tax receipts were 40% less than in 1930. At the same time government
spending proved to be a lot greater than estimated.[97] As a result, the budget deficit increased tremendously. While Secretary of the Treasury Andrew Mellon urged
to increase taxes, Hoover had no desire to do so since 1932 was an election year.[98] In December 1931, hopes that the economic downturn would come to an end
vanished since all economic indicators pointed to a continuing downward trend.[99] On January 7, 1932, Andrew Mellon announced that the Hoover administration
would end a further increase in public debt by raising taxes.[100] On June 6, 1932, the Revenue Act of 1932 was signed into law. It raised taxes on all brackets, tripling
the tax rate on the poorest, and on the wealthy he increased taxes from 25% to 63%.[101][102] The higher taxes were first to be paid for the fiscal year 1933 when
coincidently the long recession ended.
Franklin Delano Roosevelt (1933–45)
The New Deal was Roosevelt´s response to the Great Depression. The reception is mixed. While some
historians and economists argue that the New Deal was the key to recovery others argue that it prolonged
the Great Depression.
In a survey of economic historians conducted by Robert Whaples, Professor of Economics at Wake Forest
University, anonymous questionnaires were sent to members of the Economic History Association.
Members were asked to either disagree, agree, or agree with provisos with the statement that read:
"Taken as a whole, government policies of the New Deal served to lengthen and deepen the Great
Depression." While only 6% of economic historians who worked in the history department of their
universities agreed with the statement, 27% of those that work in the economics department agreed.
Almost an identical percent of the two groups (21% and 22%) agreed with the statement "with
provisos" (a conditional stipulation), while 74% of those who worked in the history department, and 51%
in the economic department disagreed with the statement outright.[103]
Arguments for key to recovery
According to Peter Temin, Barry Wigmore, Gauti B. Eggertsson and Christina Romer the biggest primary
impact of the New Deal on the economy and the key to recovery and to end the Great Depression was brought about by a successful management of public
expectations. Before the first New Deal measures people expected a contractionary economic situation (recession, deflation) to persist. Roosevelt's fiscal and
monetary policy regime change helped to make his policy objectives credible. Expectations changed towards an expansionary development (economic growth,
inflation). The expectation of higher future income and higher future inflation stimulated demand and investments. The analysis suggests that the elimination of the
policy dogmas of the gold standard, balanced budget and small government led endogenously to a large shift in expectation that accounts for about 70–80 percent of
the recovery of output and prices from 1933 to 1937. If the regime change would not have happened and the Hoover policy would have continued, the economy
would have continued its free fall in 1933, and output would have been 30 percent lower in 1937 than in 1933.[32][33]
Arguments for prolongation of the Great Depression
In the new classical macroeconomics view of the Great Depression large negative shocks caused the 1929–33 downturn – including monetary shocks, productivity
shocks, and banking shocks – but those developments become positive after 1933 due to monetary and banking reform policies. According to the model Cole-
Ohanian impose, the main culprits for the prolonged depression were labor frictions and productivity/efficiency frictions (perhaps, to a lesser extent). Financial
frictions are unlikely to have caused the prolonged slump.[104][105]
In the Cole-Ohanian model there is a slower than normal recovery which they explain by New Deal policies which they evaluated as tending towards monopoly and
distribution of wealth. The key economic paper looking at these diagnostic sources in relation to the Great Depression is Cole and Ohanian’s work. Cole-Ohanian
point at two policies of New Deal: the National Industrial Recovery Act and National Labor Relations Act (NLRA), the latter strengthening NIRA’s labor provision.
According to Cole-Ohanian New Deal policies created cartelization, high wages, and high prices in at least manufacturing and some energy and mining industries.
Roosevelts policies against the severity of the Depression like the NIRA, a “code of fair competition” for each industry were aimed to reduce cutthroat competition in
a period of severe deflation, which was seen as the cause for lowered demand and employment. The NIRA suspended antitrust laws and permitted collusion in some
sectors provided that industry raised wages above clearing level and accepted collective bargaining with labor unions. The effects of cartelization can be seen as the
basic effect of monopoly. The given corporation produces too little, charges too high of a price, and under-employs labor. Likewise, an increase in the power of
unions creates a situation similar to monopoly. Wages are too high for the union members, so the corporation employs fewer people and, produces less output. Cole-
Ohanian show that 60% of the difference between the trend and realized output is due to cartelization and unions.[104] Chari, Kehoe, McGrattan also present a nice
exposition that’s in line with Cole-Ohanian. .[105]
This type of analysis has numerous counterarguments including the applicability of the equilibrium business cycle to the Great Depression.[106]
See also
◾ Political philosophy
◾ Timeline of the Great Depression
Notes
1. Beaudreau, Bernard C. (1996). Mass Production, the Stock Market Crash and the
Great Depression. New York, Lincoln, Shanghi: Authors Choice Press.
2. Field, Alexander J. (2011). A Great Leap Forward: 1930s Depression and U.S.
Economic Growth. New Haven, London: Yale University Press. p. 182. ISBN 978-
0-300-15109-1<Field cites Freeman & Schwartz (1963), Temin (1976), Bernanke
(1983), Field (1984), Romer (1990), Eighengreen (1992).>
3. Robert Whaples, Where Is There Consensus Among American Economic
Historians? The Results of a Survey on Forty Propositions., Journal of Economic
History, Vol. 55, No. 1 (March 1995), p. 150 in JSTOR.
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/2123771)
4. Robert Whaples, Where Is There Consensus Among American Economic
Historians? The Results of a Survey on Forty Propositions., Journal of Economic
History, Vol. 55, No. 1 (March 1995), p. 143 in JSTOR.
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/2123771)
5. Keen 2000, p. 198.
6. Caldwell, J., & O'Driscoll, T. G. (2007). What Caused the Great Depression?.
Social Education, 71(2), 70-74
7. Paul Krugman, "Who Was Milton Friedman?" New York Review of Books Volume
32, Number 32 · February 3, 2007 online community
(http://www.nybooks.com/articles/19857)
8. Friedman 1965, p. 4.
9. The History of Economic Downturns in the US – But Now You Know.net
(http://butnowyouknow.wordpress.com/those-who-fail-to-learn-fromhistory/
history-of-economic-downturns-in-the-us/)
10. * Bruner, Robert F.; Carr, Sean D. (2007). The Panic of 1907: Lessons Learned
from the Market's Perfect Storm. Hoboken, New Jersey: John Wiley & Sons.
ISBN 978-0-470-15263-8
11. Gold Standards and the Real Bills Doctrine in US Monetary Policy, Richard H
Timberlake, published in Econ Journal Watch, August 2005 –
http://www.econjournalwatch.org/pdf/TimberlakeIntellectualTyrannyAugust2005.pdf
12. Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar publishing, 2003,
ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 11
13. Ben Bernanke, "Non-monetary effects of the financial crisis in the propagation of
the Great Depression", (1983) American Economic Review . Am 73#3 257–76.
14. Friedman 2007, p. 15.
15. (Samuelson 1948, p. 353)
16. Samuelson, Friedman, and monetary policy
(http://krugman.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/12/14/samuelson-friedman-and-monetarypolicy/),
Paul Krugman, New York Times Blog, December 14, 2009
17. Robert Whaples, Where Is There Consensus Among American Economic
Historians? The Results of a Survey on Forty Propositions., Journal of Economic
History, Vol. 55, No. 1 (March 1995), p. 150, in JSTOR
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/2123771?seq=1#page_scan_tab_contents)
18. [1] (http://www.johnmauldin.com/images/uploads/pdf/mwo071811.pdf) Several
graphs of total debt to GDP can be found on the Internet.
19. Jerome, Harry (1934). Mechanization in Industry, National Bureau of Economic
Research.
20. Hansen, Alvin (1939). "Economic Progress and Declining Population Growth".
American Economic Review'. 29 (March).
21. Fisher, Irving (October 1933). "The Debt-Deflation Theory of Great Depressions".
Econometrica. The Econometric Society. 1 (4): 337–357. doi:10.2307/1907327.
JSTOR 1907327.
22. Fortune, Peter (Sep–Oct 2000). "Margin Requirements, Margin Loans, and Margin
Rates: Practice and Principles – analysis of history of margin credit regulations –
Statistical Data Included". New England Economic Review.
23. "Bank Failures". Living History Farm. Retrieved 2008-05-22.
24. "Friedman and Schwartz, Monetary History of the United States", 352
25. Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Edward Elgar Publishing,
2003, ISBN 9781843765509, p. 14-15
26. Bernanke, Ben S (June 1983). "Non-Monetary Effects of the Financial Crisis in the
Propagation of the Great Depression". The American Economic Review. The
American Economic Association. 73 (3): 257–276. JSTOR 1808111.
27. Mishkin, Fredric (December 1978). "The Household Balance and the Great
Depression". Journal of Economic History. 38 (4): 918–37.
doi:10.1017/S0022050700087167.
28. Keen, Steve (2012-12-06). "Briefing for Congress on the Fiscal Cliff: Lessons from
the 1930s - Steve Keen's Debtwatch". Debtdeflation.com. Retrieved 2014-12-01.
29. http://libertyloveandjusticeforall.com/2012/12/08/debt-reset-is-inevitable/
30. Friedersdorf, Conor (2012-12-05). "What If the Fiscal Cliff Is the Wrong Cliff?".
The Atlantic. Retrieved 2014-12-01.
31. "Private Debt Caused The Current Great Depression, Not Public Debt - Michael
Clark". Seeking Alpha. Retrieved 2014-12-01.
32. Gauti B. Eggertsson, Great Expectations and the End of the Depression
(http://www.aeaweb.org/articles.php?doi=10.1257/aer.98.4.1476), American
Economic Review 2008, 98:4, 1476–1516
33. The New York Times, Christina Romer, The Fiscal Stimulus, Flawed but Valuable
(http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/21/business/how-the-fiscal-stimulus-helpedand-
could-have-done-more.html?hp&_r=0), October 20, 2012
34. Peter Temin, Lessons from the Great Depression, MIT Press, 1992, ISBN
9780262261197, p. 87-101
35. Gauti B. Eggertsson, Great Expectations and the End of the Depression
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/29730131), The American Economic Review, Vol. 98,
No. 4 (Sep., 2008), S. 1476-1516, p. 1480
36. Murray Rothbard, America's Great Depression (Ludwig von Mises Institute, 2000),
pp. 159–63.
37. Rothbard, America's Great Depression, pp. 19–21"
38. Mises, Ludwig von (2006). The Causes of the Economic Crisis; and Other Essays
Before and After the Great Depression. Ludwig von Mises Institute. p. 207.
ISBN 978-1933550039.
39. Rothbard, A History of Money and Banking in the United States, pp. 293–94.
40. John Cunningham Wood, Robert D. Wood, Friedrich A. Hayek, Taylor & Francis,
2004, ISBN 9780415310574, p. 115
41. White, Clash of Economic Ideas, p. 94. See alsoWhite, Lawrence (2008). "Did
Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?". Journal of Money, Credit and
Banking. 40 (40): 751–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x.
42. F. A. Hayek, interviewed by Diego Pizano July, 1979 published in: Diego Pizano,
Conversations with Great Economists: Friedrich A. Hayek, John Hicks, Nicholas
Kaldor, Leonid V. Kantorovich, Joan Robinson, Paul A.Samuelson, Jan Tinbergen
(Jorge Pinto Books, 2009).
43. Sennholz, Hans (October 1, 1969). "The Great Depression". Foundation for
Economic Education. Retrieved October 23, 2016.
44. "Lewis Corey: The Decline of American Capitalism (1934)". Marxists.org. 2007-
09-30. Retrieved 2014-12-01.
45. Bell, Spurgeon (1940). "Productivity, Wages and National Income , The Institute of
Economics of the Brookings Institution".
46. Yergin, Daniel (1992). The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money $ Power.
47. Vatter, Harold G.; Walker, John F.; Alperovitz, Gar (2005). "The onset and
persistence of secular stagnation in the U.S. economy: 1910-1990, Journal of
Economic Issues".
48. Beaudreau (1996) cites capacity utilization at 84-86%, which would be a decent
number today; however, there were some industrial leaders who complained of
overcapacity, as did Senator Smoot.
49. Jerome, Harry (1934). Mechanization in Industry, National Bureau of Economic
Research<For the several industries studied industry expansion offset most of the
productivity gains that would otherwise have resulted in many more job losses than
actually occurred. To prevent rising unemployment the laid off workers would have
to have changed industries, but it was noted that even if workers were successful at
such a change the time typically took 18 months or more. The employment
statistics for the 1930 census reflect conditions after the start of the depression so
the actual employment situation prior to the depression is unknown.>
50. "Hours of Work in U.S. History". 2010.
51. Whaples, Robert (June 1991). "The Shortening of the American Work Week: An
Economic and Historical Analysis of Its Context, Causes, and Consequences, The
Journal of Economic History, Vol. 51, No. 2; pp. 454–57".
52. Field, Alexander (2004). "Technological Change and Economic Growth the
Interwar Years and the 1990s" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2012-03-
10.
53. Hubbert, M. King (1940). "Man Hours and Distribution , Derived from Man Hours:
A Declining Quantity, Technocracy, Series A, No. 8, August 1936".
54. Stiglitz, Joseph (2011). "The Book of Jobs". Vanity Fair. Retrieved 2011-12-23
55. Ayres, R. U.; Ayres, L. W.; Warr, B. (2002). "Exergy, Power and Work in the U. S.
Economy 1900–1998, Insead's Center For the Management of Environmental
Resources, 2002/52/EPS/CMER" (PDF)<Fig. 4 in Appendix>From one-sixth to
one-quarter of all land had been used to grow animal feed.
56. Atack, Jeremy; Passell, Peter (1994). A New Economic View of American History.
New York: W.W. Norton and Co. pp. 574–6. ISBN 0-393-96315-2.
57. General Motors and the Decline of Streetcars
(http://debunkportland.com/printables/TQOrigin.pdf)
58. Field, Alexander J. (2011). A Great Leap Forward: 1930s Depression and U.S.
Economic Growth. New Haven, London: Yale University Press. ISBN 978-0-300-
15109-1.
59. David M. Kennedy, 'Freedom From Fear, The American People in Depression and
War 1929–1945, Oxford University Press, 1999, ISBN 0-19-503834-7, pp. 122,
123
60. Dorfman,1959
61. Allgoewer, Elisabeth (May 2002). "Underconsumption theories and Keynesian
economics. Interpretations of the Great Depression" (PDF). Discussion paper no.
2002-14.
62. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p. 108
63. The Road to Plenty (1928)
64. Chapter 15: The Great Depression. (1999). Growth of the International Economy
1820–2000 (pp. 226–34). Taylor & Francis Ltd / Books.
65. Eichengreen 1992, p. xi
66. Bernanke 2002, p. 80
67. Gold Standards and the Real Bills Doctrine in U.S. Monetary Policy, RICHARD H.
TIMBERLAKE
http://www.econjournalwatch.org/pdf/TimberlakeIntellectualTyrannyAugust2005.pdf
68. Parker, p. 49.
69. Chernow, R. (2009, Oct 23). Everyman's financial meltdown. New York Times
(1923-Current File). Retrieved from
http://search.proquest.com/docview/1030683641
70. Temin, P. (2010). The Great Recession & the Great Depression. Daedalus, 139(4),
115–24.
71. White, 1990.
72. Protectionism and the Great Depression
(http://krugman.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/11/30/protectionism-and-the-greatdepression/),
Paul Krugman, New York Times, November 30, 2009
73. The protectionist temptation: Lessons from the Great Depression for today
(http://voxeu.org/index.php?q=node/3280), VOX, Barry Eichengreen, Douglas
Irwin, 17 March 2009
74. EICHENGREEN, B., & IRWIN, D. A. (2010). The Slide to Protectionism in the
Great Depression: Who Succumbed and Why?. Journal Of Economic History, 70
(4), 871–97.
75. Hansen, Alvin (1939). "Economic Progress and Declining Population Growth".
ISBN 978-1162557823<Originally printed in a journal. Reprinted 2004, 2010>
76. Barber, Clarence L. "On the Origins of the Great Depression", Southern Economic
Journal, January, 1978, 44(3), pp. 432–56.
77. Barber, Clarence L. "On the Origins of the Great Depression", Southern Economic
Journal, January 1978, 44(3), pp. 432–56. See also Bolch, B. W. and J. D. Pilgrim,
"A Reappraisal of Some Factors Associated with Fluctuations in the United States
in the Interwar Period." Southern Economic Journal, January 1973, pp. 327–44.
78. Atack, Jeremy; Passell, Peter (1994). A New Economic View of American History.
New York: W.W. Norton and Co. p. 599. ISBN 0-393-96315-2.
79. Longman, Philip (2004). The Empty Cradle: How Falling Birthrates Threaten
World Prosperity And What to Do About It. p. 87. ISBN 0-465-05050-6.
80. Melvin I. Urofsky, The American Presidents: Critical Essays, ISBN 0-8153-
2184-8, p. 391
81. J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real Business Cycle
Theory and the Great Depression (http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?
new_window=1), National Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No.
3546, p. 1
82. White, Lawrence (2008). "Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?".
Journal of Money, Credit, and Banking. 40 (40): 751–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-
4616.2008.00134.x.
83. White, Lawrence (2008). "Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?".
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking. 40 (40): 751–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-
4616.2008.00134.x.
84. J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real Business Cycle
Theory and the Great Depression (http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?
new_window=1), National Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No.
3546, p. 5
85. Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar publishing, 2003,
ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 9
86. Hoover, Herbert. The Memoirs of Herbert Hoover, p. 31
(http://www.ecommcode.com/hoover/ebooks/pdf/FULL/B1V3_Full.pdf) Archived
(https://web.archive.org/web/20081217233238/http://www.ecommcode.com/hoover/ebooks/pdf/FULL/B1V3_December 17, 2008, at the Wayback Machine.
87. Bradford DeLong, What Was Herbert Hoover's Fiscal Policy?
(http://delong.typepad.com/sdj/2011/07/what-was-herbert-hoovers-fiscalpolicy.
html)
88. J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real Business Cycle
Theory and the Great Depression (http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?
new_window=1), National Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No.
3546, p. 33
89. Lawrence White, The Clash of Economic Ideas: The Great Policy Debates and
Experiments of the 20th Century (Cambridge University Press), p. 94.
90. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 4. Auflage, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, pp. 110–11
91. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 4. Auflage, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p. 120
92. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 4. Auflage, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p. 113
93. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 4. Auflage, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p. 114
94. Houck, D. W. (2000). RHETORIC AS CURRENCY: HERBERT HOOVER AND
THE 1929 STOCK MARKET CRASH. Rhetoric & Public Affairs, 3(2), 155–81.
95. Barber, C. L. (1978). "On the Origins of the Great Depression". Southern Economic
Journal, 44(3), 432.
96. Lewis, W. A. Economic Survey, 1919–1929. London: Allen and Unwin, 1949.
97. Roy G. Blakey, Gladys C. Blakey, The Federal Income Tax, 2006, p. 301
98. Roy G. Blakey, Gladys C. Blakey, The Federal Income Tax, 2006, pp. 302–03
99. Roy G. Blakey, Gladys C. Blakey, The Federal Income Tax, 2006, p. 304
100. Roy G. Blakey, Gladys C. Blakey, The Federal Income Tax, 2006, p. 305
101. The Concise Encyclopedia of Economics: The Great Depression
http://www.econlib.org/library/Enc/GreatDepression.html
102. http://www.cato.org/pubs/bp/bp122.pdf
103. Robert Whaples, "Where Is There Consensus Among American Economic
Historians? The Results of a Survey on Forty Propositions", Journal of Economic
History, Vol. 55, No. 1 (Mar., 1995), pp. 139–54 in JSTOR
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/2123771)
104. Cole, Harold L., and Lee E. Ohanian. "The Great Depression from a Neoclassical
Perspective." N.p., n.d. Web.
<https://www.minneapolisfed.org/research/qr/qr2311.pdf>.
105. Chari, V. V., Patrick J. Kehoe, and Ellen R. McGrattan. "Accounting for the Great
Depression." N.p., n.d. Web.
<https://www.minneapolisfed.org/research/qr/qr2721.pdf>.
106. De Vroey, Michel R. "Real Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression: The
Abandonment of the Abstentionist Viewpoint." N.p., n.d. Web.
<http://www.econ.umn.edu/~tkehoe/classes/DevroeyPensieroso.pdf>.
References
◾ Secular Stagnation and Great Depression, R. L. Norman, Jr. (http://www.secularstagnation.com)
◾ Dorfman, Joseph (1959). "Economic Mind in American Civilization"vol 4 and 5 cover the ideas of all American economists of 1918-1933.
◾ Friedman, Milton and Anna Jacobson Schwartz, A Monetary History of the United States, 1867–1960 (1963)
◾ Keen, Steve 2001. Debunking Economics Pluto Press Australia Limited Sydney, Australia
◾ Meltzer, Allan H. 2003 A History of the Federal Reserve Volume I: 1913–1951 Chicago University Press, Chicago, IL
◾ Rothbard, Murray N. 1963 America's Great Depression D. Van Nostrand Company, Princeton, NJ
◾ Rothbard, Murray N. A History of Money and Banking in the United States: The Colonial Era to World War II (2002)
◾ Samuelson, Paul (1948). "Economics".
◾ White, Eugene N. "The Stock Market Boom and Crash of 1929 Revisited" Journal of Economic Perspectives, Vol. 4, No. 2 (Spring, 1990), pp. 67–83;
examines different theories
Further reading
World
◾ Ambrosius, G. and W. Hibbard. A Social and Economic History of Twentieth-Century Europe (1989)
◾ Barber, Clarence Lyle (University of Manitoba) "On the Origins of the Great Depression" (1978)
◾ Bordo, Michael, and Anna J. Schwartz, eds. A Retrospective on the Classical Gold Standard, 1821–1931 (1984) (National Bureau of Economic Research
Conference Report)
◾ Bordo, Michael et al. eds. The Gold Standard and Related Regimes: Collected Essays (1999)
◾ Brown, Ian. The Economies of Africa and Asia in the Inter-War Depression (1989)
◾ Davis, Joseph S. The World Between the Wars, 1919–39: An Economist's View (1974)
◾ Eichengreen, Barry. Golden Fetters: The Gold Standard and the Great Depression, 1919–1939 (NBER Series on Long-Term Factors in Economic
Development), 1996, ISBN 0-19-510113-8
◾ Eichengreen, Barry, and Marc Flandreau, eds. The Gold Standard in Theory and History (1997)
◾ Feinstein, Charles H. The European Economy Between the Wars (1997)
◾ Garraty, John A. The Great Depression: An Inquiry into the Causes, Course, and Consequences of the Worldwide Depression of the Nineteen-Thirties, as Seen
by Contemporaries and in Light of History (1986)
◾ Garraty, John A. Unemployment in History (1978)
◾ Garside, William R. Capitalism in Crisis: International Responses to the Great Depression (1993)
◾ Haberler, Gottfried. The World Economy, Money, and the Great Depression 1919–1939 (1976)
◾ Hall, Thomas E. and J. David Ferguson. The Great Depression: An International Disaster of Perverse Economic Policies (1998)
◾ Kaiser, David E. Economic Diplomacy and the Origins of the Second World War: Germany, Britain, France and Eastern Europe, 1930–1939 (1980)
◾ Kindleberger, Charles P. The World in Depression, 1929–1939 (1983);
◾ Tipton, F. and R. Aldrich. An Economic and Social History of Europe, 1890–1939 (1987)
United States
◾ Ben S. Bernanke. Essays on the Great Depression (2000)
◾ Bernstein, Michael A. The Great Depression: Delayed Recovery and Economic Change in America, 1929–1939 (1989) focus on low-growth and high-growth
industries
◾ Bordo, Michael D., Claudia Goldin, and Eugene N. White, eds. The Defining Moment: The Great Depression and the American Economy in the Twentieth
Century (1998). Advanced economic history.
◾ Chandler, Lester. America's Greatest Depression (1970). economic history overview.
◾ De Long, Bradford. Liquidation Cycles and the Great Depression (1991)
◾ Horwitz, Steven (2008). "Hoover's Economic Policies". In Henderson, David R. Concise Encyclopedia of Economics (2nd ed.). Indianapolis: Library of
Economics and Liberty. ISBN 978-0865976658. OCLC 237794267.
◾ Jensen, Richard J. "The Causes and Cures of Unemployment in the Great Depression," Journal of Interdisciplinary History 19 (1989) 553–83. online at JSTOR
in most academic libraries
◾ McElvaine, Robert S. The Great Depression (2nd ed 1993) social history
◾ Mitchell, Broadus. Depression Decade: From New Era through New Deal, 1929–1941 (1964), standard economic history overview.
◾ Parker, Randall E. Reflections on the Great Depression (2002) interviews with 11 leading economists
◾ Salsman, Richard M. “The Cause and Consequences of the Great Depression” in The Intellectual Activist, ISSN 0730-2355. Mr. Salsman argues that the Great
Depression was fundamentally caused by statist government policy.
◾ Singleton, Jeff. The American Dole: Unemployment Relief and the Welfare State in the Great Depression (2000) (http://www.questia.com/PM.qst?
a=o&d=24419587)
◾ Warren, Harris Gaylord. Herbert Hoover and the Great Depression (1959).
Role of the United States Federal Reserve
◾ Chandler, Lester V. American Monetary Policy, 1928–41. (1971).
◾ Epstein, Gerald and Thomas Ferguson. "Monetary Policy, Loan Liquidation and Industrial Conflict: Federal Reserve System Open Market Operations in
1932." Journal of Economic History 44 (December 1984): 957–84. in JSTOR
◾ Kubik, Paul J., "Federal Reserve Policy during the Great Depression: The Impact of Interwar Attitudes regarding Consumption and Consumer Credit." Journal
of Economic Issues. Vo: 30. Issue: 3. Publication Year: 1996. pp 829+.
◾ Mayhew, Anne. "Ideology and the Great Depression: Monetary History Rewritten." Journal of Economic Issues 17 (June 1983): 353–60.
◾ Meltzer, Allan H. A History of the Federal Reserve, Volume 1: 1913–1951 (2004) the standard scholarly history
◾ Steindl, Frank G. Monetary Interpretations of the Great Depression. (1995).
◾ Temin, Peter. Did Monetary Forces Cause the Great Depression? (1976).
◾ Wicker, Elmus R. "A Reconsideration of Federal Reserve Policy during the 1920–1921 Depression," Journal of Economic History (1966) 26: 223–38, in
JSTOR
◾ Wicker, Elmus. Federal Reserve Monetary Policy, 1917–33. (1966).
◾ Wells, Donald R. The Federal Reserve System: A History (2004)
◾ Wueschner, Silvano A. Charting Twentieth-Century Monetary Policy: Herbert Hoover and Benjamin Strong, 1917–1927 Greenwood Press. (1999)
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Causes_of_the_Great_Depression&oldid=756605201"
Categories: 1920s Great Depression Causes of events
◾ This page was last modified on 25 December 2016, at 13:22.
◾ Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use
and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
1910年-1960年のアメリカ合衆国の年毎の実質GDP。世界恐慌の期間
(1929年-1939年)をピンク色で示した。
世界恐慌の原因
出典: フリー百科事典『ウィキペディア（Wikipedia）』
この記事は検証可能な参考文献や出典が全く示されていないか、不十分です。
出典を追加して記事の信頼性向上にご協力ください。（2009年11月）
この項目「世界恐慌の原因」は途中まで翻訳されたものです。（原文：英語版 "Causes of the Great
Depression" 00:56, 24 August 2012 （UTC） (https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=Causes_of_the_Great_Depression&oldid=508859943)）
翻訳作業に協力して下さる方を求めています。ノートページや履歴 (https://ja.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=%E4%B8%96%E7%95%8C%E6%81%90%E6%85%8C%E3%81%AE%E5%8E%9F%E5%9B%
A0&action=history)、翻訳のガイドラインも参照してください。要約欄への翻訳情報の記入をお忘れなく。
（2016年2月）
世界恐慌の原因(せかいきょうこうのげんいん)は経済学者達の活発な議論の主題となっており、これは広く見れば経済危機に関する議
論の一環でもある。だが一般的には、世界恐慌は1929年の株価大暴落により引き起こされたと信じられている。世界恐慌時に起きた
個々の経済的事件も徹底的に研究されてきた: そういった事件には、資産や商品価格のデフレ、需要と信用の急降下、貿易網の崩壊、
そして究極的に起こる失業とそれに続く貧困などがある。しかしながら、恐慌を引き起こし、あるいは恐慌からの回復をもたらした政府の
経済政策と個々の事件との因果関係は歴史家の間で意見の一致をみていない。
近年では、理論は二つの主流派といくつかの異説に大きく分けられる。
まず、ケインズ経済学や制度派経済学による需要主導モデルの理論では、不景気は消費不足と(それによってバブル経済が引き起こさ
れたところの)過剰投資によって引き起こされたと主張される。需要主導モデルの理論においては、信用が大きく損なわれたことで消費・
投資活動の急激な減少が起きたということで意見が一致している。一たび混乱・デフレが起こると、多くの人々は市場から距離を置くこと
でこれ以上の損失を回避しようとするというのである。このために物価は下がり続け、等量のお金でも多くの物品を買えるようになる。そ
の結果、お金を貯蓄に回すことが有利となり、更なる需要減少に見舞われることになる。
次に、マネタリストらによれば、世界恐慌は通常の不景気として始まったのだが、その時の通貨当局(特に連邦準備制度)による重大な政
策のミスが金融引締めという結果を招き、これによって経済状況が極端に悪化したために通常の不景気から世界恐慌に至ったという。こ
の説明は、負債デフレによって借り手は実質的により多くの債務を負うことになると指摘する人々と関連がある。
このほかにいくつかの異説があり、それらを支持してケインジアンやマネタリストの説明を否定する者がいる。新しい古典派マクロ経済学
者の中には、恐慌初期に課された様々な労働市場政策が長く深刻な世界恐慌を齎したと主張する者もいる。オーストリア経済学派は、
中央銀行の決定がどのようにして誤投資を招くかとマネーサプライのマクロ経済的影響に着目する。
目次
◾ 1 一般理論による説明
◾ 1.1 主流説
◾ 1.1.1 ケインジアン
◾ 1.1.2 マネタリスト
◾ 1.2 異説
◾ 1.2.1 オーストリア学派
◾ 1.2.2 マルクス主義
◾ 2 原因に関する個々の理論
◾ 2.1 負債デフレ
◾ 2.2 負債以外の原因によるデフレ
◾ 2.3 生産に対する衝撃
◾ 2.4 富と収入の不均衡
◾ 2.5 金本位制
◾ 2.6 金融機関の構造
◾ 2.7 保護貿易主義
◾ 2.8 国際的な債権構造
◾ 2.9 集団動力学
◾ 3 経済政策の役割
◾ 3.1 放任清算主義
◾ 3.2 オーストリア学派の政府膨張論
◾ 3.2.1 消費の増大
◾ 3.2.2 新たな公的規制
◾ 3.2.3 税率の引き上げ
◾ 4 関連項目
◾ 5 脚注
◾ 6 参考文献
◾ 7 関連文献
◾ 7.1 世界
◾ 7.2 アメリカ合衆国
◾ 7.3 連邦準備制度の役割
一般理論による説明
主流説
ケインジアン
多くの経済学者がその活動を主張するところの自己修正機構が不景気に働かないことがある理由は複数あると1936年に経済学者ジョ
ン・メイナード・ケインズが主張した。著書『雇用・利子および貨幣の一般理論』においてケインズは、世界恐慌を説明するための概念を導
入した。不景気時における不干渉主義政策に対する一つの主張として、もし貯蓄によって消費が落ち込むならば貯蓄は利率の低下をも
たらすというものがある。古典派経済学者によれば、低い利率は投資の拡大をもたらし需要が持続的になるという。
しかし、利率が低下しても投資が必ずしも活発にならないことの良い説明があるとケインズは主張する。利益を期待しての投資は事業に
よってもたらされる。それゆえ、消費の落ち込みが長期にわたるならば、事業の分析の傾向として将来の売り上げの期待は低いものとな
る。そのため、低利率によって資本が安価になっても将来の生産量を増大させるような投資は最も関心が向かないものとなるのである。
この場合、消費の減少によって経済は一斉安に陥る[1]。ケインズによれば、この自己強化的活動こそが恐慌時に非常に活発になり、倒
産が頻発して(将来に対する楽観的な期待が必要である)投資がほとんど起こらなくなったのだという。この説は経済学者によってしばし
ばセイの法則に反するものとして特徴づけられ、特にオーストリア経済学派に人気がある。
資本投資の減少が恐慌の原因であるという説は長期停滞論の中心的な主題である。
マネタリスト
1963年の著書『米国金融史 1867年-1960年』において、ミルトン・フリードマンとアンナ・シュウォーツは彼ら流の世界恐慌の説明を開陳し
た。彼らの考えによれば、本質的には、世界恐慌はマネーサプライの減少によってもたらされた。フリードマンとシュウォーツは次のように
書いている: 「1929年8月の周期的な山から1933年の周期的な谷までの間に、通貨流通量は3分の1強にまで落ち込んだ。」その結果が
フリードマンいう所の「大収縮」―金融引き締めの窒息効果による収入・物価・雇用の減退―である。この頃、連邦準備制度が供給する
より以上に人々はお金を欲していたのだとフリードマンとシュウォーツは主張する。その結果人々は消費を減らすことでお金を貯蓄した。
また、物価は即座に下落するほど融通が利かないために、結果として、雇用と生産の収縮が起きた。連邦の過ちは何が起こったのか分
からなかったことや正しい対応を取らなかったことにある[2]。
恐慌以降、その主要な説明はマネーサプライの重要性を無視する傾向があった。しかし、マネタリストによれば、恐慌は「事実上、金融の
効果の重要性の悲劇的な証明である[3]。」彼らによれば、連邦準備制度の世界恐慌に対処する上での失敗は、金融政策が無力である
ことの表れではなく、連邦準備制度が間違った政策を実行したことの表れであるという。彼らは連邦が恐慌を「起こした」と主張しているの
ではなく、不景気が恐慌になるのを防ぐ政策を使い損ねたと言っているだけである。
南北戦争後から20世紀初期にかけて、アメリカ合衆国とヨーロッパは政府が規定する形の金本位制を採用していた。この時期のアメリカ
経済は周期的な好不況の波を受けていた。不景気はしばしば銀行不況によって引き起こされていたとみられ、特に重要なものは1873
年、1893年、1901年、1907年、1920年に起こっている[4]。連邦準備制度が1913年に成立する以前のアメリカ合衆国では銀行システムが
紙幣の兌換性を停止することでこうした(1907年恐慌のような)危機に対処していた。1893年に開始して以降、金融機関やビジネスマンに
よる成長努力がこうした危機に介在し、取り付けに喘ぐ銀行に流動性をもたらしていた。1907年の銀行恐慌の際、J・P・モルガンの招集し
たその場限りの連合がこの方法でうまく介入し、それによって恐慌が遮断されており、このため通常銀行恐慌に続いて起こる大恐慌がこ
の時には起こらなかったのだとされる。政府がこうした解決策をとることが要求されたために連邦準備制度が設立されることとなった[5]。
しかし1928年-1932年には、連邦準備制度は取り付けにあえぐ銀行に流動性をもたらすことはなかった。実際にはその政策はマネーサプ
ライの急激な収縮を許すことで銀行危機に応えていた。狂騒の20年代には、中央銀行は第一の目標を「物価の安定」に定めていたが、
これはニューヨーク連邦準備銀行の総裁ベンジャミン・ストロングが、物価の安定を金融目標とした非常に著名な経済学者アーヴィング・
フィッシャーの弟子だからということもある。そういった事情から中央銀行は社会の物価が安定する程度にドルの流通量を保った。1928年
にストロングが死に、彼の死とともにこの政策が終了し、全ての通貨・証券は背後に実際的な物品を裏付けとして持っているべきだという
真正手形学説が取って代わった。この政策の為にアメリカ合衆国のマネーサプライは1929年から1933年の間に3分の1以上に減少するこ
とになった[6]。
この通貨減少によって銀行への取り付けが起こっても連邦は真正手形学説を保持し、1907年恐慌を遮ったときの方法で銀行に貸し付け
ることを拒否し、代わりに各銀行を破滅的な取り付けにあえぐままにさせ完全に没落させた。この政策によって連鎖的な銀行の倒産が起
こり、当時存在した銀行の3分の1が消滅した。[7]。ベン・バーナンキによれば、続いて起こった信用危機によってさらに倒産の波が起こっ
た[8]。1907年と同じ政策が1930年終わりの銀行恐慌の際にも採用されていればこれによって物価下落時の資産の流動化の強制の悪し
き連鎖が防げただろうとフリードマンは述べた。そうしていれば、1893年や1907年に兌換性停止によって当時の流動性危機がすぐに止ん
だのと同じく、1931年、1932年、1933年の銀行恐慌は起こらなかったであろうというのである[9]。
マネタリストによる説明はサミュエルソンの著書『経済学』において否定されており、「連邦準備制度の金融政策を景気循環を制御する万
能薬とみなす経済学者は今日ではほとんどいない。純粋に金融的なファクターは原因であるのと同じだけ徴候であると考えられる、悪化
させる効果を伴っており完全に無視すべきではない徴候ではあるが[10]。」と述べられている。ケインズ経済学者のポール・クルーグマン
によれば、フリードマンとシュウォーツの著作は1980年代までに主流派経済学者の間で支配的になったが、1990年代日本の「失われた
10年」の下に再考されるべきであるという[11]。経済危機における金融危機の役割は世界金融危機 (2007年-)に関する活発な議論で扱わ
れている。世界金融危機 (2007年-)の原因を参照。
異説
世界恐慌初期の取り付け騒ぎ時にニュー
ヨークのアメリカ連合銀行に集まった群衆
オーストリア学派
世界恐慌は1920年代の連邦準備制度の金融政策の避けられない結果だったとオーストリア経済学派は主張している。彼らの意見では、
この中央銀行の政策は持続不可能な信用によるにわか景気をもたらす「安直な信用政策」であった。オーストリア学派の考えでは、この
時期のマネーサプライのインフレが資産価値(有価証券)と資本財の両者において持続不可能なバブルを引き起こしたという。連邦準備
制度が1928年に遅れて金融引き締めを行うまでには、深刻な経済後退を避けるには手遅れになっていた[12]。1929年の大暴落の後の政
府の介入によって市場の調節が遅れ、完全な回復がより困難になる道が開かれたとオーストリア学派は主張している[13]。
世界恐慌の主原因に関するオーストリア学派の説明を受け入れることはマネタリストの説明の否定を受け入れることと両立する。『アメリ
カの世界恐慌』(1963年)の著者でオーストリア経済学派のマリー・ロスバードはマネタリストの説明を否定している。中央銀行はマネーサ
プライを十分に増やすのに失敗したのだというミルトン・フリードマンの主張をロスバードは批判し、代わりに、1932年に連邦準備制度が
11億ドルの米国債を買い入れて所有国債量を18億ドルとした際、連邦準備制度はインフレ政策を追求していたのだと主張する。中央銀
行の政策に反してデフレが深刻化したのは「マネーサプライ総量が30億ドルに達したのに（民間）銀行の準備金の総量は2億1200万ドル
に留まった」ためであり、これはアメリカの大衆が銀行組織に不信感を抱いてさらに多くの預金を銀行から引き出し退蔵したという、中央
銀行の制御を大きく超える理由によるものだと彼は主張する。ロスバードの主張によると、銀行に対する取付のおそれの為に地銀は準
備金の貸し出しにさらに消極的になり、このために連邦準備制度がインフレを起こせなかったという[14]ことになる。
ロスバードがマネタリストの説明を批判したことに対して、もう一人の卓越したオーストリア経済学派のメンバーフリードリヒ・ハイエクは反
対した。ハイエクは、自身が1930年に中央銀行のデフレ政策に反対しなかったことが誤っていたと1975年に認め、曖昧な態度をとったこ
とに関して釈明した: 「当時私は、幾分短い期間におけるデフレの過程は、(経済が機能することと両立不可能だと私が考えていたところ
の)賃金の硬直性を破壊するものだと考えていた[15]。」 1978年には彼は「一たび急落が起こると連邦準備制度は愚かなデフレ政策を追
求するようになるということに関してミルトン・フリードマンに賛成する」と述べてマネタリストの見解に賛成し、デフレに反対してインフレに
賛成することを明らかにした[16]。この流れを汲んで、マネーサプライの強い引き締めを許すような金融政策とハイエクの景気循環理論は
矛盾すると経済学者のローレンス・H・ホワイトが主張している。
マルクス主義
「資本主義#マルクス学派」も参照
マルクス主義者は概して、資本主義モデルに固有の不安定性が世界恐慌を引き起こしたのだと主張する[17]。
原因に関する個々の理論
負債デフレ
詳細は「負債デフレ」を参照
アメリカ合衆国のGDPに対する負債の割合は世界恐慌の時までには300%に達した。この
割合は20世紀終わりまで越えられることはなかった[18]。
ジェローム(1934年)は戦間期の産業の大発展を可能にした財政状態に関する原典不明の
引用をしている:
恐らく未だかつてこの国でこれほどの量の国債がこれほど低い利率、これほど長い
期間にわたって出されたことはなかった[19]。
さらに、スタンダード・スタティスティックス社による60度の国債の指数が1923年の4.98%から
4.47%になった際には新たな資本発行の量が1922年から1929年の年平均から7.7%増加し
たとジェロームは述べている。
1920年代には特にフロリダ州で不動産・住宅のバブルが起こったが1925年に破裂した。
1920年代の住宅建設は人口増加の勢いを25%上回っていたとアルヴィン・ハンセンが述べている[20]。参照:1920年代フロリダの土地バブ
ル
アーヴィング・フィッシャーは、世界恐慌を引き起こした主原因は負債過多とデフレだと主張した。フィッシャーは信用の低下を負債過多と
結びつけ、負債過多が投機熱と資産バブルを刺激したのだとしている[21]。負債・デフレという状況下で相互作用し、バブルが起こり崩壊
する仕組みを作りだした九つの要因を彼は概説している。それら先行する出来事の連鎖は以下:
1. 負債の流動化と占有権の売却
2. 銀行ローンとしてのマネーサプライの緊縮が清算される
3. 資産価格水準の低下
4. 全体としての商業価値の深刻な低下、突然の破産
5. 利益の低下
6. 商業・雇用における生産量の低下
7. 信用の減少とペシミズム
8. お金の死蔵
9. 名目金利の低下と利率にあわせたデフレの拡大[21]
ウォール街大暴落後にウォール街に群がる
群衆
世界恐慌に先行する1929年の急落の際、証拠金規定額は10%にすぎなかった[22]。つまり、
株式仲売業者は投資社が1ドル預けるごとに9ドル貸し付けた。市場が急落した際、業者は
こうしたローンを回収しようとしたが、それは返ってくることはなかった。債務者が債務不履
行を起こし、預金者が一斉に預金を回収しようとすることで取り付け騒ぎが起こり、銀行が
倒産し始めた。こうした騒ぎを食い止めるための政府の保証や連邦準備制度による銀行の
規制は効果がないか使われなかった。銀行の破産により数十億ドルの資産が失われた
[23]。
物価と収入が20-50%減少しているのに負債は同価格であるため、未払いの負債が重くのし
かかった。1929年の混乱の後、1930年最初の10か月間に744のアメリカ合衆国の銀行が破
産した(1930年代には全部で9000ほどの銀行が破産した)。1933年4月までに、3月の銀行の
法定休日の後に無資格の預金や破産した銀行の70億ドルの預金が凍結された[24]。
絶望した銀行家が、借り手が返すお金・時間を持てないほどの勢いで貸付金の回収を行う
とともに銀行の倒産が連鎖的に起こった。予測利益が低いものであったため、資本投資や
建築が停滞した。不良債権や将来の見通しの悪化に直面し、生きのこった銀行は貸付によ
り消極的になった[23]。銀行は基fdsa本準備金を増加させるとともに貸し付けを減らし、これに
よってデフレ圧を強めた。悪しき循環が進み、下降スパイラルが増加した。
負債の流動化は自身が引き起こした物価の下降を食い止められなかった。自身の資産を
流動させようという大衆の衝動的行動の大局的効果によってデフレが加速し、資産量減衰
の価値に影響した。自身の負債を減らそうとする個々人の努力こそが事実上それを増大さ
せていた。逆説的だが、負債者が払えば払うほど、彼らは負債を多く抱えることになった
[21]。この自己悪化の過程が1930年の不景気を1933年の世界恐慌へ変えた。
連邦準備銀行の総裁ベン・バーナンキのようなマクロ経済学者がフィッシャーに由来する世界恐慌の負債デフレ説を復活させた[25][26]。
負債以外の原因によるデフレ
負債デフレに加えて、19世紀最後の四半世紀の大デフレ以降に起こった生産性デフレの構成要素が存在した[27] 。第一次世界大戦に
よって起こったインフレを強める補正もおそらく継続していた。
48州で見つかった中でも最大の油田、東テキサス油田が操業して、1930年代には原油価格が歴代最安値に達していた。原油市場にお
ける過剰供給のため価格は10セント/バレルにまで低下していた[28]。参照: 世界恐慌の原因#生産に対する衝撃
生産に対する衝撃
20世紀最初の30年には資本投資と経済生産高が電化・大量生産・輸送機関の電動化・農業の機械化とともに湧き起こり、生産性の急速
な増加により、多くの工場の閉鎖や物価の下落とともに余剰生産能力の増大が見られた[19][29]。結果として、世界恐慌の前の10年には
一週の労働時間が僅かに減少していた[30][31][32]。世界恐慌によってさらに多くの工場が閉鎖した[19]。
「我々の述べる[生産性、生産高、雇用の]傾向が1929年以前に完全に明白だったことをあまり極端に強調することはできな
い。この傾向はこの恐慌の結果では決してないし、世界大戦の結果でもない。そうではなくて、この恐慌はこういった長期に
わたる傾向の結果起こった崩壊なのである[33]。」マリオン・キング・ヒューバート
全米経済研究所の援助により出版されたジェローム『産業の機械化』(1934年)には、機械化が生産高を増大させる傾向を持つのか労働
力を解雇する傾向を持つのかは生産物の要求の弾力性に依存すると述べられている[19]。また、生産コスト現象は必ずしも消費者に還元
されない。さらに、第一次世界大戦以降ウマやラバが非動物の動力に取って代わられるとともに家畜飼料の需要が減少して農業は不利
な影響を被ったと述べられている。「技術的失業」という術語は世界恐慌時の労働環境を表すのに使われるとも『産業の機械化』に記さ
れている[19]。
「戦間期アメリカ合衆国の特徴である失業の増大の幾分かは非弾力的需要に応じた商品を生産する産業の機械化が原因
であるといえるだろう[19]。」フレデリック・C・ウェルズ、1934年
1923年の景気循環の頂点からしばらく後、過剰な労働者が雇用創生と比較して生産性発展により取って代わられており、1925年以降の
失業の拡大を引き起こした[34][29]。
アメリカ合衆国の主要産業の生産性の劇的な拡大とその生産品、賃金、労働時間に対する影響が、ブルッキングス研究所の支援により
出版された書籍の中で議論されている。[27]
肥料、機械化、品種改良を通じた生産性ショックこそが農産物価格の低下を引き起こしたのだとジョセフ・スティグリッツとブルース・グリー
ンウォルドが主張した。農家は過剰な労働力供給を加えた土地に押し込められていたのだという[35]。
農産物価格は第一次世界大戦後に低下し始めた。結果的に多くの農家が商売として農業を成り立たせられなくなり、数百の小規模な地
銀の倒産を招いた。トラクター、肥料、雑種トウモロコシによる農業生産性は問題の一部にすぎなかった; 他の問題とはウマ・ラバから内
燃力輸送機関への転換であった。ウマ・ラバの数は第一次世界大戦以降減少し始め、家畜飼料を生産していた大量の土地が余るように
なった[19][36]。
自動車・バスが電車の発展を止めるようになった[37]。
富と収入の不均衡
ウォディル・キャッチングズ、ウィリアム・トゥルファント・フォスター、レックスフォード・タグウェル、アドルフ・バール(、そして後にはジョン・ケ
ネス・ガルブレイス)といった経済学者はフランクリン・ルーズベルトに幾分かの影響を与えた理論を普及させた[38]。その理論とは、経済
が、消費者に十分な収入がないにもかかわらず、消費者が購入できる以上の商品を生産してしまった、というものである[39][40][41]。この説
によれば、1920年代の賃金の上昇率は生産性の上昇率を下回っていたのである。生産性が増大したことによる恩恵のほとんどは利潤と
なってしまい、それは株式市場バブルを引き起こしたものの、消費者の購買行動には繋がらなかった。このように、1920年代を通じて富
が不平等に分配されたことが世界恐慌を引き起こしたという。
この説によれば、世界恐慌の根本的な原因は、独立企業による賃金・収入の水準が十分な購買力を生み出すに達していないにもかか
わらず行われた世界的な過剰投資である。また、政府は富裕層に対する課税を重くすることで収入をより平等にすべきだった、と主張さ
れる。政府は、歳入の増加を利用して公共事業を行って雇用を増加させることで経済を「蹴って始動」させられた、という。だがアメリカ合
衆国では1932年まで、これとは正反対の経済政策が行われていたのである。大統領退任前年のハーバート・フーヴァーに紹介されフラ
ンクリン・ルーズベルトによって採用されることになった<1932年歳入法>や公共事業計画が、購買力をある程度再分配することに成功し
たのである[42][43]。
金本位制
世界恐慌の金本位制理論によれば、恐慌の原因は主に、第一次世界大戦後の西側諸国が戦前の値段に基づく金本位制に復帰しようと
したことにである。この説によれば、これによって金融政策がデフレ志向になり10年間にわたってヨーロッパの多くの国の経済の健全性を
害し続けたという。
この戦後政策に先駆けてインフレ政策がとられていた第一次世界大戦中には、多くのヨーロッパ諸国は戦費の激増により金本位制を廃
止せざるを得なかった。この結果、新しく作られた金の供給がインフレを中和させる生産性への投資ではなく戦費に使われたため、インフ
レが起こった。この説は、大量に導入された金の量によってインフレ率が決まり、それゆえインフレへ導くことが、破壊的・消費的であって
経済成長を導かない目的のために造られた新貨幣の総量を減少させるというものである。
戦後アメリカやヨーロッパ諸国が金本位制に復帰した際、多くの国は戦前の水準の金-通貨レートをとった。例えばイギリスでは1925年に
金本位法が国会を通過し、これによって金本位制に復帰した際、当時外国為替市場で戦前よりもずっと低い価格でポンドが取引されて
いたにもかかわらずスターリング・ポンドを戦前と等価に設定するという致命的な決定を行った。当時ジョン・メイナード・ケインズらは、政
府はそうすることによって釣り合いが取れていないような賃金再設定を強いているのだと主張してこの決定を批判した。ウィンストン・
チャーチルが金本位制に復帰させたことに対するケインズの批判はこれを暗にヴェルサイユ条約の結果と比較するものであった。
戦前と等価にしようという傾向が生まれた理由として一つは、デフレは危険ではないのに対してインフレは、特にヴァイマール共和国に見
られるインフレは耐え難い危険であるという当時優勢であった意見があった。もう一つの理由として、額面価額で貸し付けている者は自
身が貸し付けたのと同価値の金を回復できる期待があったというものがある[citation needed]。フランスに支払わなければならない巨額
の賠償金を支払うための外貨を獲得するのに十分な商品を輸出・販売するために、ドイツは信用を犠牲にした成長の時代に入った。世
界の金の溜まる場所としてのアメリカ合衆国はドイツがフランスに償還するための基盤として産業化するための資金を貸し付け、フランス
はイギリスおよびアメリカに償還した。この流れはドーズ案に明文化された。
非常に高利の借金をして再融資もできない状態にあるか、低利率ではないときに資本財に融資するための貸し付けに依存している場
合、農業のような産業分野にとってデフレは辛いものとなりうる。負債の実質的価値が増加しているのに対して物価はデフレに浸食され
ていく。資産を現金で保持している者や、資産を投資・購買に充てたり資金を貸し付けたりしようとしている者にとってはデフレは有益であ
る。
ピーター・テミン、ベン・バーナンキ、バリー・アイケングリーンといった経済学者によるより近年の研究は、世界恐慌時に緊縮政策がとら
れていたことに着目している。この考え方によれば、戦間期の金本位制下での緊縮は最初の経済的ショックを拡大し、恐慌を食い止める
あらゆる行動に対して大きな障害となったという。彼らによれば、最初の不安定化させる衝撃はアメリカ合衆国のウォール街大暴落に起
因するが、外国に問題を伝播させたのは金本位制であるという[44]。
彼らの出した結論によると、危機の時代の政策決定者たちは金融政策・財政政策を緩和しようとしたが、そのような行動が、契約上の率
で金を交換する義務を維持する国家の能力を脅かしたという。外国の資産を金で買おうとする国際的投資家を引き付けるために、金本
位制は高利率を維持することを要求する。そのため、金本位制を廃止しない限り、政府は景気の急落にも手をこまねいているほかない。
金本位制をとる全ての国の交換比率を修正することで、外国為替市場が利率の平衡を保つ事だけは保証される。恐慌が悪化すると多く
の国が金本位制を廃止し始め、より早く廃止した国々はより少なくデフレの影響を受けてより早くデフレから回復する傾向があった[45]。
自由銀行制派経済学者にしてミルトン・フリードマンの弟子のリチャード・ティンバーレイクは自身の立場を『アメリカ合衆国の金融政策に
みられる金本位制と実質手形原理』で明確に説明したが、この論文での彼の主張によると、連邦準備制度は実は金本位制化においてか
なりの余裕を持っており、そのことがニューヨーク連邦準備銀行総裁ベンジャミン・ストロングによる1923年から1928年の物価安定政策に
よって証明されたという。しかし1928年後半にストロングが没すると、ニューヨーク連邦準備銀行の支配権を引き継いだ派閥が、全ての金
は実際の商品によって代表されなければならないという実質手形原理を唱道した。ドルに30%のデフレを強いて当然合衆国経済に損害
を与えたこの政策は恣意的で、避けられるものであって、金本位制はこれなしに存続できたとティンバーレイクが述べている:
金の管理におけるこの移行は決定的であった。ストロングは前任者に従って金本位制という足かせに頓着せずに物価安定政策を
実行し、実質手形原理の支持者は自身の理想とする政策を実行する上で同様に束縛を受けずに済んだ。1928年-1929年のシステ
ムポリシーは結果的に物価安定から受動的な実質手形に移行した。「この」金本位制はそれが再出現するのに好都合な時を待つ
形式的な見せ掛けでしかない場所で残存した[46]。
金融機関の構造
経済史家(特にフリードマンとシュウォーツ)が多くの銀行が倒産したことの重要性を強調する。倒産は主にアメリカの地方で起こった。地
域経済の構造的な脆弱性によって地銀が非常に貧弱になっていたのである。農家は既に多額の負債を抱えており、1920年代に農場価
格が急落するのと負債の予想実質比率が跳ね上がるのとを目にした。
ニューヨーク株価指数
彼らの土地は(1919年の地価バブルの結果として)過剰に法的義務
を負わされており、穀物の価格が低いために彼らは所有物を売り
払うことを強いられた。小銀行、特に農業経済と結びついた小銀行
は1920年代には突然の実質利率の上昇による顧客の債務不履行
のために常に危機的状況にあった; こういった小銀行の間には20
年代を通じて既に倒産の波が押し寄せていたのである。
都銀もまたショックへの弱さをもたらす構造的脆弱性に苦しんでい
た。国内最大の銀行の中には適量の準備金を保持せずに、株式市
場で大量の投資を行ったりリスクの高い貸し付けを行ったりするも
のもあった。ニューヨーク市銀によるドイツやラテンアメリカへの貸し
付けは特に高リスクであった。つまり、銀行機構は大不景気の
ショックを低減するように十分に準備されていなかったのである。
ウォール街大暴落に関する事実をどれだけ特定できるか経済学
者・歴史家が議論している。時期は明らかである。; 将来の利益に
対する期待への衝撃は甚大であった。1928年-1929年の市場はファ
ンダメンタルズによって定められたよりも極端に物価が高い「バブ
ル」であったとほとんどのアナリストが考えている。そのことに何らかの点で責任があるが、どれだけ責任があるかを推量することはでき
ないと経済学者たちは認めている。「1929年の株式市場の崩壊が最初の不景気に役割を果たしたことは片時も疑えない[47]」とミルトン・
フリードマンが結論付けている。
議論は三つのグループに分かれている: 最初のグループは、急落が将来の予想の劇的な低下と大量の資本投資の撤退とによって恐慌
を引き起こしたと述べる; 第二のグループは、1929年夏に景気がずり落ちて急落がそれを追認したと述べる; 第三のグループは、どちら
のシナリオにおいても急落は不景気を引き起こす以上のことはなしえないと述べる。市場は1930年4月には一旦回復したが、それ以降物
価は再び下がり続け、1932年7月にやっと最終的な底値に達した。これはどう計ってもアメリカ合衆国で最長期間の市場の衰退である。
1930年の不景気から1931年-1932年の大恐慌への遷移の為に、全く異なる要因が役割を果たしたのである[48]。
保護貿易主義
スムート・ホーリー法にみられるような保護貿易主義は、保護貿易主義政策をとってその結果近隣窮乏化政策に至った国々とともに、世
界恐慌の原因としてしばしば挙げられる[49][50]。スムート・ホーリー法は農家の債務不履行を招いており、特に農業に対して有害であっ
た。この出来事により中西部や西部での取り付けが起こったか悪化したかして、その結果銀行機構が崩壊した。1000人以上の経済学者
が署名した嘆願書が連邦政府に提出され、その嘆願書中でスムート・ホーリー法が経済に壊滅的な影響をもたらすという警告がなされ
た; しかし、これによってスムート・ホーリー法の議会通過が覆ることはなかった。
変動相場制ではなく金本位制をとる国で保護貿易主義が採用されたことを鑑み、保護貿易主義は恐慌の原因ではなく恐慌に対する「反
応」であったと主張する経済学者もいる[50]: 金本位制をとる国々は利率を切り下げたり最後の貸し手となったりすることができなかった、
というのはそれらの国々はいずれ金を切らすが、金本位制を取らない国々は利率を切り下げて不換紙幣を印刷することができるからで
ある。この解釈の下では、保護貿易主義は、金融政策が金本位制に縛られている国々の貿易条件を変化させるのに一役買ったといえ
る。
国際的な債権構造
1918年に終戦を迎えると、ヨーロッパの国でアメリカ合衆国と提携している国は全てアメリカの銀行から多額の借金をし、その借金の総
額はそれらの国々の大戦で蕩尽された国庫では支払いきれないほどになった。これが、連合国がドイツやオーストリア・ハンガリーに対し
て(ウッドロウ・ウィルソンを驚嘆させたほどの)賠償金を要求した理由の一つである。連合国の信ずるところによれば、賠償金のおかげで
連合国は負債を清算する目途がたつはずだった。しかし、ドイツとオーストリア・ハンガリー自身が戦後に深刻な経済危機に陥っていた;
連合国が負債を支払えない以上にドイツとオーストリア・ハンガリーが賠償金を支払えないという状況であった。
債務国は1920年代にアメリカ合衆国に負債の免除か少なくとも負債の軽減を行うことを強く要求した。対するアメリカ政府はその要求を
拒否した。代わりに、アメリカの銀行が欧州諸国に対して大規模な貸し付けを始めた。そのため、負債(と賠償金)は古い負債を増額させ
て新しい負債を積み重ねることによってのみ支払われる。1920年代後半には、特にアメリカ経済が1929年以降に弱体化してからは、欧
州諸国がアメリカからさらに金を借りるのが困難になった。同時に、アメリカの高い関税によって、欧州諸国が商品をアメリカ市場で売る
のが非常に困難になった。借金を払い戻すために貿易によって収入を得ることもできず、欧州諸国は債務不履行を起こし始めた。
1920年代後半になると、ヨーロッパのアメリカに対する商品需要は減少し始めた。これは、ヨーロッパの産業・農業の生産性が増したから
というのもあるし、いくつかの欧州諸国(最も顕著なのはヴァイマル共和制下のドイツ)が深刻な経済危機にあえいでいて外国の商品を買
う余裕がなかったからというのもある。しかし、1920年代後半にヨーロッパ経済を不安定化させた主原因は、第一次世界大戦の余波の中
で起きた国際的債権構造である。
スムート・ホーリー法のような関税障壁によって戦争負債の支払いが致命的に妨害された。アメリカ合衆国の高関税の結果、ある種の循
環のみによって賠償金や戦争支払いの続行がなされた。1920年代に、かつての連合国は主にドイツの賠償金支払いによって得られた
資金によって戦争負債を分割支払いし、ドイツはアメリカ合衆国とイギリスからの私的な借金によってのみ支払うことができた。同様に、
アメリカが海外に投資したドルのみによって諸外国がアメリカの輸出品を購入することができた。
1929年の株式市場急落に続く流動性の奪い合いの中、ヨーロッパからアメリカへ資金が回収され、ヨーロッパの脆弱な経済が砕け散っ
た。
1931年までに、世界は近現代で最悪の恐慌によってがたつき、賠償金や戦争負債の構造全体が崩壊した。
10億固定ドル価による1920年-1940年のアメリカ合衆国の年毎
のGDPと長期間の趨勢
集団動力学
1939年に、著名な経済学者アルヴィン・ハンセンが恐慌と連動して人口増加率が減少すると主張した[51]。同じ説が1978年の雑誌記事で
マニトバ大学の経済学者クラレンス・バーバーによって主張された。一種のハロッド・ドーマーモデルを用いて世界恐慌を分析し、彼はこう
述べている:
「このモデルでは、ハロッドの自然成長率の減少を生み出す状況に、より具体的には人口増加率、労働力増加率、生産性・技術発
展性の増加率が正当な成長率以下にまで減少している中に、深刻な恐慌の起源を探ることになる[52]。
1920年代の「生産性成長率」の減少の「はっきりした証拠はない」が、同時期の人口増加率現象の「はっきりした証拠」はあるとバーバー
は述べている。深刻な恐慌を引き起こすうえで十分重要な「自然成長率」の減少は人口増加率現象によって起きたのであろうと彼は述べ
ている[52]。
バーバーは、おそらく人口増加率の減少が住宅需要に影響したのだろうと述べ、これが1920年代に起こったことと見受けられると主張し
ている。かれはこう結論している:
「農家以外の家庭の急速で非常に大規模な増加率減少こそが明らかに、1926年以降のアメリカ合衆国の住宅建築界に起こったこ
とである。そしてこの減少が、ボルチとピルグリムが主張し続けているように、1929年の都心の大恐慌への転換の最も重要な一要
因なのであろう[53]。」
1920年代の人口増加率現象の原因の中には1910年以降の出産率低下[54]や移民の減少がある。移民の減少は主に1920年代に大幅な
移民抑制策がとられたことにある。1921年に緊急移民制限法が議会を通過し、続いて1924年移民法が制定された。
経済政策の役割
放任清算主義
今日の主流派経済学派の考えでは、政府は広く名目上の累計を安定した
成長傾向に留めておくよう努力すべきだった(新しい古典派やマネタリストに
とって、基準は名目マネーサプライである; ケインズ経済学派にとって、基
準は名目総需要それ自体である)。名目マネーストックと総名目需要を急落
しないよう保つために、恐慌期には、中央銀行は銀行機構に流動性を注入
するべきであり、政府は税率を切り下げ消費を促進すべきであった[55]。
連邦政府と連邦準備制度は1929年-1932年にこれを行わず、世界恐慌へと
陥った。経済史家の間で一般的になってきている説では、連邦準備制度の
政策決定者たちの清算主義理論への執着が破滅的な結果を招いたとされ
る[56]。「清算主義」の存在が世界恐慌という宿痾と戦わない公共政策を決
定する動機づけをするうえで重要な役割を果たした。フーヴァー大統領はこ
う書いている:[57]
“ メロン財務長官に率いられた放任清算主義者たちが[...]政
府は手を出さずにスランプ自己清算するのに任せるべきだ
と感じている。メロン氏はたった一つの方策を持っている:
「労働を清算せよ、株式を清算せよ、農家を清算せよ、不動
産を清算せよ」[...]「それによってシステムから腐敗が排除
される。高額の生命、高い生命は低下する。人々はより働
き、より道徳的に生活するようになる。価値観が調節され、
人々を楽しませることが競争力に劣る人々の破滅を防ぐ。」”
「ケインジアン革命」以前は、このような清算主義理論が経済学者のとる一般的立場であり、フリードリヒ・ハイエク、ライオネル・ロビン
ズ、ヨーゼフ・シュンペーター、シーモア・ハリスといった経済学者によってこの理論が主張・発展させられた[58]。清算主義者によれば恐慌
は良薬である。恐慌の機能は、非生産的な使用から生産の要因(資本と労働)を解放するために、技術的発展のために時代遅れとなり失
敗した投資・ビジネスを清算することだとされた。それらの要因は技術的に活発な経済分野に回された。彼らは1920年-1921年の恐慌に
言及して、この恐慌は1920年代後半の繁栄の基礎を築いたと主張した。彼らは(1921年に既に実行されていた)デフレ政策をとることを要
求し、この政策は資本・労働力を非生産的な活動から解放して新たな経済的バブルの基礎を築くのに使うものだと主張した。経済の自己
調節が大量の倒産を起こすとしても、そうなるのに任せておくべきだと清算主義者たちは主張した[59]。というのは、聖餐過程を延期するこ
とは徒に社会的コストを増大させるだけだと彼らが考えていたからである。シュンペーターの著作によれば、それは[60]
“ [...]回復は、ひとりでに起こったときにのみ健全であると私たちに信じさせてくれる。人工的な刺激のみによるいかなる復
活も、十分に恐慌の働きが行き届かない部分を残し、環境不適応だった部分が消化され切らずに残った部分に対してそ
れ自体の新たな環境不適応が加えられ、それがまた生産を必要とするようになり、後々に別の[より悪い)危機によって商
業を脅かすのである。”
清算主義者の期待に反して、株式資本の大部分は世界恐慌一年目に転換・消去されなかった。オリヴィエ・ブランチャードとローレンス・
サマーズの研究によれば、1933年までに不景気によって1924年以前のレベルの資本蓄積が起こった[61]。
ジョン・メイナード・ケインズやミルトン・フリードマンといった経済学者は、清算主義理論から帰結する放置策が世界恐慌の深刻化に資し
たと主張している[62]。ケインズは嘲笑のレトリックによって、ハイエク、ロビンズ、シュンペーターを以下のように表すことで清算主義思想
の信用を失わせようとした。
“ [...]禁欲的・清教徒的な心根が[世界恐慌を][...]彼らの言うところの「過膨張」にたいする不可避にして望ましい報いとして
扱う[...]。それは、過剰な繁栄が続く全体的な倒産によってバランスがとられなかったときに、不正な富に対して起こる勝
利だと彼らは感じている。自分たちが丁重にも「延期された清算」と呼ぶものが自分たちを正してくれることを望むと彼ら
は述べている。彼らが我々に述べるところによると、清算は未だ完了していない。しかしやがては完了する。そして清算
が完了するのに十分な時間がたてば、全ては再び我々にとって良くなる[...]
”
ミルトン・フリードマンは、こういった「危険なナンセンス」はシカゴ大学では決して教えられていないこと、なぜ(このナンセンスが教えられ
ている)ハーヴァードで若く明敏な経済学者達が自分たちの師のマクロ経済学を否定してケインジアンに転向するのかを自分は分かって
いること、を述べた[63]。彼はこう書いている:
“ 私が思うにオーストリア学派の景気循環理論は世界に大きな悪影響をもたらした。あなたがキー・ポイントたる1930年代
に戻れば、ロンドンにオーストリア学派がはびこっているのが見られて、ハイエクやライオネル・ロビンズに世界が景気の
底にあるのを放置しろと言われるだろう。あなたはそれに従って景気が自己回復するに任せることになるだろう。それに
対して何かをすることは許されない。何をしてもより悪くなるだけなのだから。[...]私が思うにこの種の放置策に焚き付けら
れて、イギリスでもアメリカでも彼らは害を為したのである[64]。”
経済学者ローレンス・H・ホワイトは、ハイエクとロビンズが1930年代初期のデフレ政策に積極的には反対しなかったことを認めたが、そ
れにも関わらず、ハイエクが清算主義の唱道者であったというミルトン・フリードマン、ジェームズ・ブラッドフォード・デロングその他の主張
に挑戦した。ハイエクとロビンズの景気循環理論(後に今日知られているようなオーストリア景気循環理論に発展する)は実はマネーサプ
ライの強い引き締めを許すような金融政策とは矛盾するものだったとホワイトは主張する。それにもかかわらず、世界恐慌の際にはハイ
エクは「1929年-1932年の強いデフレと名目収入の萎縮に曖昧な態度をとった[65]」とホワイトは述べている。1975年の講話で、ハイエクは
自身が40年以上前に中央銀行のデフレ政策に反対しなかったことの非を認め、曖昧な理由をとったことの理由を説明した: 「当時私はあ
る程度短期間のデフレの過程は、経済が機能することと相容れないと私が考えていた賃金の硬直性を破壊すると信じていた[66]。」その
三年後、ハイエクは世界恐慌初期の連邦の突然のマネーサプライの引き締めと連邦が銀行に流動性を供給するのに失敗したことを強く
批判した:
“ 「一たび急落が起こると連邦準備制度が愚かなデフレ政策に走ったという点に関して私はミルトン・フリードマンに同意す
る。私は単にインフレに反対しているのではなく、デフレにも反対している。だから、もう一度、間違って計画された金融政
策が恐慌を引き延ばす[67]。”
オーストリア学派の政府膨張論
消費の増大
フーヴァーが連邦政府の消費を50%引き上げたのは効果的だった。ほとんどの増大が1932年に起こり、それに同調して長い不景気が
ゆっくりと終わりを迎えた。オーストリア経済学派の中でも自由銀行制派に属する経済学者スティーヴン・ホーウィッツは、短い不景気だっ
たはずのものを長引かせて「大恐慌」にしてしまったとしてフーヴァーの消費を責めている:
短い不景気に終わるはずだったものを、より深刻で、ずっと長い大恐慌に変えてしまったという批判をハーヴァート・フーヴァーはう
まく捌いている[...]彼は恐慌と戦うために政府の役割を大きく拡張した[...]その結果は、不幸なことに(しかし驚くべきことではなく)、
火と上手く戦ったというよりもむしろ炎を煽った[68]。
デイヴィッド・ワインバーガーは、このアプローチを、ウィルソンの強い連邦政府が引き起こした恐慌の下で経済を劇的に刺激したと彼が
述べた(正当なチャートにおいても見られる)クーリッジ政権下の消費・税・赤字の切り下げと対比した[69]。クーリッジ政権の商務長官とし
てフーヴァーが消費増大とクーリッジの下での規制を奨励したが、多くの部分を1929年に彼自身が実行したことに彼は注目する[70]。GDP
に占める連邦の消費が成長し続けていたことを発見したランダル・グレゴリー・ホルコムが述べているように、フーヴァーの下でのこの大
成長はフーヴァーによる景気下降で歳入を減らしたとしても事実連邦準備制度の下で以上の事がなされたことは明らかだという[71]。
新たな公的規制
著書『アメリカの世界恐慌』、『ハーバート・フーヴァーの恐慌』その他において、マリー・ロスバードは、フーヴァーが示した産業・農業・雇
用といった分野における新たな連邦規制の一覧を提示したが、彼はそれを世界恐慌をもたらした連邦準備制度の干渉主義と結びつけて
述べた[72]。
税率の引き上げ
1932年にフーヴァーは歳入法を制定して税率を劇的に引き上げた。彼はあらゆる層に対する税を引き上げ、最貧困層に対する税を三倍
にして富裕層に対する税率を25%から63%に上げた[73][74]。この高率の税は会計年度であり長い不景気が終わった年に同調して支払わ
れた。
関連項目
◾ 政治哲学
◾ 世界恐慌のタイムライン
脚注
1. ^ Keen 2000, p.198.
2. ^ Paul Krugman, "Who Was Milton Friedman?" New York Review of
Books Volume 32, Number 32 · February 3, 2007 online community
(http://www.nybooks.com/articles/19857)
3. ^ Friedman 1965, p.4.
4. ^ The History of Economic Downturns in the US -- But Now You
Know.net (http://butnowyouknow.wordpress.com/those-who-fail-tolearn-
from-history/history-of-economic-downturns-in-the-us/)
5. ^ * Bruner, Robert F.; Carr, Sean D. (2007), The Panic of 1907:
Lessons Learned from the Market's Perfect Storm, Hoboken, New
Jersey: John Wiley & Sons, ISBN 978-0-470-15263-8
6. ^ Gold Standards and the Real Bills Doctrine in US Monetary Policy,
Richard H Timberlake, published in Econ Journal Watch, August
2005 --
http://www.econjournalwatch.org/pdf/TimberlakeIntellectualTyrannyAugust2005.pdf
7. ^ Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar
publishing, 2003, ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 11
8. ^ Ben Bernanke, "Non-monetary effects of the financial crisis in the
propagation of the Great Depression", (1983) American Economic
Review . Am 73#3 257–76.
9. ^ Friedman 2007, p.15.
10. ^ (Samuelson 1948, p. 353)
11. ^ Samuelson, Friedman, and monetary policy
(http://krugman.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/12/14/samuelson-friedmanand-
monetary-policy/), Paul Krugman, New York Times Blog,
December 14, 2009
12. ^ Murray Rothbard, America's Great Depression (Ludwig von Mises
Institute, 2000), pp. 159-163.
13. ^ Rothbard, America's Great Depression, pp. 19-21"
14. ^ Rothbard, A History of Money and Banking in the United States,
pp.293-294.
15. ^ White, Clash of Economic Ideas, p. 94. See alsoWhite, Lawrence
(2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?”.
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751–768.
doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x (http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%
2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
16. ^ F. A. Hayek, interviewed by Diego Pizano July, 1979 published in:
Diego Pizano, Conversations with Great Economists: Friedrich A.
Hayek, John Hicks, Nicholas Kaldor, Leonid V. Kantorovich, Joan
Robinson, Paul A.Samuelson, Jan Tinbergen (Jorge Pinto Books,
2009).
17. ^ http://www.marxists.org/archive/corey/1934/decline/index.html
18. ^ [1]
(http://www.johnmauldin.com/images/uploads/pdf/mwo071811.pdf)
Several graphs of total debt to GDP can be found on the Internet.
19. ^ a b c d e f g Jerome, Harry (1934). Mechanization in Industry,
National Bureau of Economic Research
20. ^ Hansen, Alvin (1939). “Economic Progress and Declining
Population Growth”. American Economic Review' 29 (March)
21. ^ a b c Fisher, Irving (October 1933). “The Debt-Deflation Theory of
Great Depressions”. Econometrica (The Econometric Society) 1 (4):
337–357. doi:10.2307/1907327 (http://dx.doi.org/10.2307%
2F1907327). JSTOR 1907327 (http://www.jstor.org/stable/1907327).
22. ^ Fortune, Peter (Sept-Oct, 2000). “Margin Requirements, Margin
Loans, and Margin Rates: Practice and Principles - analysis of history
of margin credit regulations - Statistical Data
Included” (http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m3937/is_2000_Sept-
Oct/ai_80855422/pg_3/?tag=content;col1). New England Economic
Review.
23. ^ a b “Bank Failures
(http://www.livinghistoryfarm.org/farminginthe30s/money_08.html)”.
Living History Farm. 2008年5月22日閲覧。
24. ^ "Friedman and Schwartz, Monetary History of the United States",
352
25. ^ Bernanke, Ben S (June 1983). “Non-Monetary Effects of the
Financial Crisis in the Propagation of the Great Depression”. The
American Economic Review (The American Economic Association)
73 (3): 257–276. JSTOR 1808111
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/1808111).
26. ^ Mishkin, Fredric (December 1978). “The Household Balance and
the Great Depression”. Journal of Economic History 38 (04): 918–37.
doi:10.1017/S0022050700087167 (http://dx.doi.org/10.1017%
2FS0022050700087167).
27. ^ a b Bell, Spurgeon (1940). Productivity, Wages and National
Income , The Institute of Economics of the Brookings Institution
28. ^ [|Yergin, Daniel
(https://www.cera.com/aspx/cda/public1/about/expertise/personPopup.aspx?
iAuthorPK=112)] (1992). The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money $
Power.
29. ^ a b Beaudreau, Bernard C. (1996). Mass Production, the Stock
Market Crash and the Great Depression. New York, Lincoln,
Shanghi: Authors Choice Press.
30. ^ “Hours of Work in U.S. History
(http://eh.net/encyclopedia/article/whaples.work.hours.us)” (2010年).
2012年8月28日閲覧。
31. ^ Whaples, Robert (1991, June). The Shortening of the American
Work Week: An Economic and Historical Analysis of Its Context,
Causes, and Consequences, The Journal of Economic History, Vol.
51, No. 2; pp. 454-457
32. ^ “Technological Change and Economic Growth the Interwar Years
and the 1990s (http://www.econ.yale.edu/seminars/echist/eh04/field-
041006.pdf)” (2004年). 2012年8月28日閲覧。
33. ^ Hubbert, M. King (1940).
http://www.scribd.com/doc/22289589/Man-Hours-and-Distribution-
M-King-Hubbert Man Hours and Distribution , Derived from Man
Hours: A Declining Quantity, Technocracy, Series A, No. 8, August
1936 (http://www.)
34. ^ Jerome, Harry (1934). Mechanization in Industry, National Bureau
of Economic Research<For the several industries studied industry
expansion offset most of the productivity gains that would otherwise
resulted in many more job losses than actually occurred. To prevent
rising unemployment the laid off workers would have to have
changed industries, but it was noted that even if workers were
successful at such a change the time typically took 18 months or
more. The employment statistics for the 1930 census reflect
conditions after the start of the depression so the actual employment
situation prior to the depression is unknown.>
35. ^ Stiglitz, Joseph (2011), “The Book of
Jobs” (http://www.vanityfair.com/politics/2012/01/stiglitzdepression-
201201), Vanity Fair 23/12/2011閲覧。
36. ^ Ayres, R. U.; Ayres, L. W.; Warr, B. (2002). Exergy, Power and
Work in the U. S. Economy 1900-1998, Insead’s Center For the
Management of Environmental Resources, 2002/52/EPS/CMER
(http://terra2000.free.fr/downloads/expowork.pdf)<Fig. 4 in
Appendix>From one-sixth to one-quarter of all land had been used to
grow animal feed.
37. ^ General Motors and the Decline of Streetcars
(http://debunkportland.com/printables/TQOrigin.pdf)
38. ^ David M. Kennedy, 'Freedom From Fear, The American People in
Depression and War 1929 - 1945, Oxford University Press, 1999,
ISBN 0-19-503834-7, p. 122, 123
39. ^ Dorfman,1959
40. ^ Allgoewer, Elisabeth (May 2002). “Underconsumption theories and
Keynesian economics. Interpretations of the Great
Depression” (http://www.vwa.unisg.ch/RePEc/usg/dp2002/dp0214allgoewer_ganz.pdf).
Discussion paper no. 2002-14.
41. ^ Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA
1890–1954, Hodder Education, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p.
108
42. ^ Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA
1890–1954, Hodder Education, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p.
108
43. ^ The Road to Plenty (1928)
44. ^ Eichengreen 1992, p.xi
45. ^ Bernanke 2002, p.80
46. ^ Gold Standards and the Real Bills Doctrine in U.S. Monetary
Policy, RICHARD H. TIMBERLAKE
http://www.econjournalwatch.org/pdf/TimberlakeIntellectualTyrannyAugust2005.pdf
47. ^ Parker, p.49.
48. ^ White, 1990.
49. ^ Protectionism and the Great Depression
(http://krugman.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/11/30/protectionism-andthe-
great-depression/), Paul Krugman, New York Times, November
30, 2009
50. ^ a b The protectionist temptation: Lessons from the Great Depression
for today (http://voxeu.org/index.php?q=node/3280), VOX, Barry
Eichengreen, Douglas Irwin, 17 March 2009
51. ^ Hansen, Alvin (1939). Economic Progress and Declining
Population Growth. ISBN 978-1162557823<Originally printed in a
journal. Reprinted 2004, 2010>
52. ^ a b Barber, Clarence L. "On the Origins of the Great Depression",
Southern Economic Journal, January, 1978, 44(3), pp. 432-456.
53. ^ Barber, Clarence L. "On the Origins of the Great Depression",
Southern Economic Journal, January 1978, 44(3), pp. 432-456. See
also Bolch, B. W. and J. D. Pilgrim, "A Reappraisal of Some Factors
Associated with Fluctuations in the United States in the Interwar
Period." Southern Economic Journal, January 1973, pp. 327-44.
54. ^ Longman, Philip (2004). The Empty Cradle: How Falling
Birthrates Threaten World Prosperity And What to Do About It.
p. 87. ISBN 0-465-05050-6.
55. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 1
56. ^ White, Lawrence (2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the
Great Depression?”. Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751
–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x
(http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
57. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 1
58. ^ Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar
publishing, 2003, ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 9
59. ^ Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar
publishing, 2003, ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 9
60. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 1
61. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 33
62. ^ White, Lawrence (2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the
Great Depression?”. Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751
–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x
(http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
63. ^ J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real
Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression
(http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?new_window=1), National
Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3546, p. 1
64. ^ White, Lawrence (2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the
Great Depression?”. Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751
–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x
(http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
65. ^ Lawrence White, The Clash of Economic Ideas: The Great Policy
Debates and Experiments of the 20th Century (Cambridge University
Press), p. 94.
66. ^ White, Clash of Economic Ideas, p. 94. See alsoWhite, Lawrence
(2008). “Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?”.
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (40): 751–768.
doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x (http://dx.doi.org/10.1111%
2Fj.1538-4616.2008.00134.x)
67. ^ F. A. Hayek, interviewed by Diego Pizano July, 1979 published in:
Diego Pizano, Conversations with Great Economists: Friedrich A.
Hayek, John Hicks, Nicholas Kaldor, Leonid V. Kantorovich, Joan
Robinson, Paul A.Samuelson, Jan Tinbergen (Jorge Pinto Books,
2009).
68. ^ Herbert Hoover, Father of the New Deal, by Steven Horwitz
http://www.cato.org/pubs/bp/bp122.pdf
69. ^ Does ‘Austerity’ Work? by David Weinberger
http://blog.heritage.org/2011/10/27/does-austerity-work/
70. ^ Lessons from Economic Recessions II- The Forgotten Recession of
1920 http://conservativehideout.com/wordpress/2011/07/05/lessonsfrom-
economic-recessions-ii-the-forgotten-recession-of-1920/
71. ^ The Growth of the Federal Government in the 1920s, Randall G.
Holcombe http://www.cato.org/pubs/journal/cj16n2-2.html
72. ^ Hoover's Attack on Laissez-Faire, by Murray Rothbard
http://mises.org/daily/2902#2
73. ^ The Concise Encyclopedia of Economics: The Great Depression
http://www.econlib.org/library/Enc/GreatDepression.html
74. ^ http://www.cato.org/pubs/bp/bp122.pdf
参考文献
◾ Secular Stagnation and Great Depression, R. L. Norman, Jr. (http://www.secularstagnation.com)
◾ Dorfman, Joseph (1959). Economic Mind in American Civilizationvol 4 and 5 cover the ideas of all American economists of 1918-
1933.
◾ Friedman, Milton and Anna Jacobson Schwartz, A Monetary History of the United States, 1867-1960 (1963)
◾ Keen, Steve 2001. Debunking Economics Pluto Press Australia Limited Sydney, Australia
◾ Meltzer, Allan H. 2003 A History of the Federal Reserve Volume I: 1913-1951 Chicago University Press, Chicago, IL
◾ Rothbard, Murray N. 1963 America's Great Depression D. Van Nostrand Company, Princeton, NJ
◾ Rothbard, Murray N. A History of Money and Banking in the United States: The Colonial Era to World War II (2002)
◾ Samuelson, Paul (1948). Economics.
◾ White, Eugene N. "The Stock Market Boom and Crash of 1929 Revisited" Journal of Economic Perspectives, Vol. 4, No. 2 (Spring,
1990), pp. 67–83; examines different theories
関連文献
世界
◾ Ambrosius, G. and W. Hibbard. A Social and Economic History of Twentieth-Century Europe (1989)
◾ Bordo, Michael, and Anna J. Schwartz, eds. A Retrospective on the Classical Gold Standard, 1821–1931 (1984) (National Bureau of
Economic Research Conference Report)
◾ Bordo, Michael et al. eds. The Gold Standard and Related Regimes: Collected Essays (1999)
◾ Brown, Ian. The Economies of Africa and Asia in the Inter-War Depression (1989)
◾ Davis, Joseph S. The World Between the Wars, 1919-39: An Economist's View (1974)
◾ Eichengreen, Barry. Golden Fetters: The Gold Standard and the Great Depression, 1919–1939 (NBER Series on Long-Term Factors
in Economic Development), 1996, ISBN 0-19-510113-8
◾ Eichengreen, Barry, and Marc Flandreau, eds. The Gold Standard in Theory and History (1997)
◾ Feinstein, Charles H. The European Economy Between the Wars (1997)
◾ Garraty, John A. The Great Depression: An Inquiry into the Causes, Course, and Consequences of the Worldwide Depression of the
Nineteen-Thirties, as Seen by Contemporaries and in Light of History (1986)
◾ Garraty, John A. Unemployment in History (1978)
◾ Garside, William R. Capitalism in Crisis: International Responses to the Great Depression (1993)
◾ Haberler, Gottfried. The World Economy, Money, and the Great Depression 1919-1939 (1976)
◾ Hall, Thomas E. and J. David Ferguson. The Great Depression: An International Disaster of Perverse Economic Policies (1998)
◾ Kaiser, David E. Economic Diplomacy and the Origins of the Second World War: Germany, Britain, France and Eastern Europe,
1930-1939 (1980)
◾ Kindleberger, Charles P. The World in Depression, 1929-1939 (1983);
◾ Tipton, F. and R. Aldrich. An Economic and Social History of Europe, 1890–1939 (1987)
◾ Barber, Clarence Lyle (University of Manitoba) "On the Origins of the Great Depression" (1978)
アメリカ合衆国
◾ Ben S. Bernanke. Essays on the Great Depression (2000)
◾ Bernstein, Michael A. The Great Depression: Delayed Recovery and Economic Change in America, 1929-1939 (1989) focus on lowgrowth
and high-growth industries
◾ Bordo, Michael D., Claudia Goldin, and Eugene N. White, eds. The Defining Moment: The Great Depression and the American
Economy in the Twentieth Century (1998). Advanced economic history.
◾ Chandler, Lester. America's Greatest Depression (1970). economic history overview.
◾ De Long, Bradford. Liquidation Cycles and the Great Depression (1991)
◾ Jensen, Richard J. "The Causes and Cures of Unemployment in the Great Depression," Journal of Interdisciplinary History 19 (1989)
553-83. online at JSTOR in most academic libraries
◾ McElvaine, Robert S. The Great Depression (2nd ed 1993) social history
◾ Mitchell, Broadus. Depression Decade: From New Era through New Deal, 1929-1941 (1964), standard economic history overview.
◾ Parker, Randall E. Reflections on the Great Depression (2002) interviews with 11 leading economists
◾ Salsman, Richard M. “The Cause and Consequences of the Great Depression” in The Intellectual Activist, ISSN 0730-2355. Mr.
Salsman argues that the Great Depression was fundamentally caused by statist government policy.
◾ Singleton, Jeff. The American Dole: Unemployment Relief and the Welfare State in the Great Depression (2000)
(http://www.questia.com/PM.qst?a=o&d=24419587)
◾ Warren, Harris Gaylord. Herbert Hoover and the Great Depression (1959).
連邦準備制度の役割
◾ Chandler, Lester V. American Monetary Policy, 1928-41. (1971).
◾ Epstein, Gerald and Thomas Ferguson. "Monetary Policy, Loan Liquidation and Industrial Conflict: Federal Reserve System Open
Market Operations in 1932." Journal of Economic History 44 (December 1984): 957-84. in JSTOR
◾ Kubik, Paul J., "Federal Reserve Policy during the Great Depression: The Impact of Interwar Attitudes regarding Consumption and
Consumer Credit." Journal of Economic Issues. Vo: 30. Issue: 3. Publication Year: 1996. pp 829+.
◾ Mayhew, Anne. "Ideology and the Great Depression: Monetary History Rewritten." Journal of Economic Issues 17 (June 1983): 353-
60.
◾ Meltzer, Allan H. A History of the Federal Reserve, Volume 1: 1913-1951 (2004) the standard scholarly history
◾ Steindl, Frank G. Monetary Interpretations of the Great Depression. (1995).
◾ Temin, Peter. Did Monetary Forces Cause the Great Depression? (1976).
◾ Wicker, Elmus R. "A Reconsideration of Federal Reserve Policy during the 1920-1921 Depression," Journal of Economic History
(1966) 26: 223-238, in JSTOR
◾ Wicker, Elmus. Federal Reserve Monetary Policy, 1917-33. (1966).
◾ Wells, Donald R. The Federal Reserve System: A History (2004)
◾ Wueschner, Silvano A. Charting Twentieth-Century Monetary Policy: Herbert Hoover and Benjamin Strong, 1917-1927 Greenwood
Press. (1999)
Template:GreatDepr nav
「https://ja.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=世界恐慌の原因&oldid=60902860」から取得
カテゴリ: 翻訳中途 - 2016年2月1920年代世界恐慌経済恐慌金本位制出来事の原因
◾ 最終更新 2016年8月25日 (木) 17:12 （日時は個人設定で未設定ならばUTC）。
◾ テキストはクリエイティブ・コモンズ表示-継承ライセンスの下で利用可能です。追加の条件が適用される場合があります。
詳細は利用規約を参照してください。
USA annual real GDP from 1910 to 1960, with the years of the Great
Depression (1929–39) highlighted
Money supply decreased a lot between Black Tuedsay and the Bank
Holiday in March 1933 when there was massive bank runs across the
United States.
Causes of the Great Depression
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
The causes of the Great Depression in the early 20th century have been extensively discussed
by economists and remain a matter of active debate. They are part of the larger debate about
economic crises.
The specific economic events that took place during the Great Depression have been studied
thoroughly: a deflation in asset and commodity prices, dramatic drops in demand and credit, and
disruption of trade, ultimately resulting in widespread unemployment (over 13 million people
were unemployed by 1932) and hence poverty. However, historians lack consensus in
determining the causal relationship between various events and the government economic policy
in causing or ameliorating the Depression. The initial stock market crash triggered a "panic selloff"
that made the stock market go even lower.
Although a common belief is that the Great Depression was triggered by the 1929 crash of the
stock market, the stock market in 1929 had reached record fundamental valuations in spite of
deteriorating economic conditions such as rising unemployment, overproduction (excess
capacity), underconsumption and high debt. The timing of the crash coincided with news that the
proposed import tariff on manufactured products was losing support in Congress.[1]
Current theories may be broadly classified into two main points of view and several heterodox
points of view.
First, there are demand-driven theories, from Keynesian and institutional economists who argue
that the depression was caused by a widespread loss of confidence that led to underconsumption.
The demand-driven theories argue that the financial crisis following the 1929 crash led to a
sudden and persistent reduction in consumption and investment spending.[2] Once panic and
deflation set in, many people believed they could avoid further losses by keeping clear of the
markets. Holding money therefore became profitable as prices dropped lower and a given amount
of money bought ever more goods, exacerbating the drop in demand.
Second, there are the monetarists, who believe that the Great Depression started as an ordinary
recession, but that significant policy mistakes by monetary authorities (especially the Federal
Reserve) caused a shrinking of the money supply which greatly exacerbated the economic
situation, causing a recession to descend into the Great Depression. Related to this explanation are those who point to debt deflation causing those who borrow to owe
ever more in real terms.
There are also various heterodox theories that reject the explanations of the Keynesians and monetarists. Some new classical macroeconomists have argued that
various labor market policies imposed at the start caused the length and severity of the Great Depression. The Austrian school of economics focuses on the
macroeconomic effects of money supply and how central banking decisions can lead to malinvestment. Marxian economists view the Great Depression, with all other
economic crises, as a symptom of the classism and instability inherent in the capitalist model.
Contents
◾ 1 General theoretical reasoning
◾ 1.1 Mainstream theories
◾ 1.1.1 Keynesian
◾ 1.1.2 Monetarist
◾ 1.1.3 Additional modern nonmonetary explanations
◾ 1.1.3.1 Debt deflation
◾ 1.1.3.2 Expectations hypothesis
◾ 1.2 Heterodox theories
◾ 1.2.1 Austrian School
◾ 1.2.2 Marxian
◾ 2 Specific theories of cause
◾ 2.1 Non-debt deflation
◾ 2.2 Productivity or technology shock
◾ 2.3 Disparities in wealth and income
◾ 2.4 Gold Standard system
◾ 2.5 Financial institution structures
◾ 2.6 Protectionism
◾ 2.7 International Debt Structure
◾ 2.8 Population dynamics
◾ 3 Role of economic policy
◾ 3.1 Calvin Coolidge (1923–29)
◾ 3.2 Leave-it-alone liquidationism (1929–33)
◾ 3.2.1 Overview
◾ 3.2.2 Criticism
◾ 3.3 Herbert Hoover (1929–33)
◾ 3.3.1 Economic policy
◾ 3.3.2 Federal spending
◾ 3.3.3 Tax policy
◾ 3.4 Franklin Delano Roosevelt (1933–45)
◾ 3.4.1 Arguments for key to recovery
◾ 3.4.2 Arguments for prolongation of the Great Depression
◾ 4 See also
◾ 5 Notes
◾ 6 References
The Great Depression in a monetary
view.
◾ 7 Further reading
◾ 7.1 World
◾ 7.2 United States
◾ 7.3 Role of the United States Federal Reserve
General theoretical reasoning
The two classical competing theories of the Great Depression are the Keynesian (demand-driven) and the monetarist explanation. There are also various heterodox
theories that downplay or reject the explanations of the Keynesians and monetarists.
Economists and economic historians are almost evenly split as to whether the traditional monetary explanation that monetary forces were the primary cause of the
Great Depression is right, or the traditional Keynesian explanation that a fall in autonomous spending, particularly investment, is the primary explanation for the
onset of the Great Depression.[3] Today the controversy is of lesser importance since there is mainstream support for the debt deflation theory and the expectations
hypothesis that building on the monetary explanation of Milton Friedman and Anna Schwartz add non-monetary explanations.
There is consensus that the Federal Reserve System should have cut short the process of monetary deflation and banking collapse. If the FED had done that the
economic downturn would have been far less severe and much shorter.[4]
Mainstream theories
Keynesian
In his book The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money (1936), British economist John Maynard Keynes introduced concepts that were intended to help
explain the Great Depression. He argued that there are reasons why the self-correcting mechanisms that many economists claimed should work during a downturn
might not work.
One argument for a non-interventionist policy during a recession was that if consumption fell due to savings, the savings would cause the rate of interest to fall.
According to the classical economists, lower interest rates would lead to increased investment spending and demand would remain constant. However, Keynes argues
that there are good reasons why investment does not necessarily increase in response to a fall in the interest rate. Businesses make investments based on expectations
of profit. Therefore, if a fall in consumption appears to be long-term, businesses analyzing trends will lower expectations of future sales. Therefore, the last thing they
are interested in doing is investing in increasing future production, even if lower interest rates make capital inexpensive. In that case, the economy can be thrown into
a general slump due to a decline in consumption.[5] According to Keynes, this self-reinforcing dynamic is what occurred to an extreme degree during the Depression,
where bankruptcies were common and investment, which requires a degree of optimism, was very unlikely to occur. This view is often characterized by economists
as being in opposition to Say's Law.
The idea that reduced capital investment was a cause of the depression is a central theme in Secular stagnation theory.
Keynes argued that if the national government spent more money to recover the money spent by consumers and business firms, unemployment rates would fall. The
solution was for the Federal Reserve System to “create new money for the national government to borrow and spend” and to cut taxes rather than raising them, in
order for consumers to spend more, and other beneficial factors.[6] Hoover chose to do the opposite of what Keynes thought to be the solution and allowed the federal
government to raise taxes exceedingly to reduce the budget shortage brought upon by the depression. Keynes proclaimed that more workers could be employed by
decreasing interest rates, encouraging firms to borrow more money and make more products. Employment would prevent the government from having to spend any
more money by increasing the amount at which consumers would spend. Keynes’ theory was then confirmed by the length of the Great Depression within the United
States and the constant unemployment rate. Employment rates began to rise in preparation for World War II by increasing government spending. “In light of these
developments, the Keynesian explanation of the Great Depression was increasingly accepted by economists, historians, and politicians”.[6]
Monetarist
In their 1963 book A Monetary History of the United States, 1867–1960, Milton Friedman and Anna Schwartz laid out their
case for a different explanation of the Great Depression. Essentially, the Great Depression, in their view, was caused by the
fall of the money supply. Friedman and Schwartz write: "From the cyclical peak in August 1929 to a cyclical trough in March
1933, the stock of money fell by over a third." The result was what Friedman calls the "Great Contraction" — a period of
falling income, prices, and employment caused by the choking effects of a restricted money supply. Friedman and Schwartz
argue that people wanted to hold more money than the Federal Reserve was supplying. As a result, people hoarded money by
consuming less. This caused a contraction in employment and production since prices were not flexible enough to
immediately fall. The Fed's failure was in not realizing what was happening and not taking corrective action.[7]
After the Depression, the primary explanations of it tended to ignore the importance of the money supply. However, in the
monetarist view, the Depression was “in fact a tragic testimonial to the importance of monetary forces.”[8] In their view, the
failure of the Federal Reserve to deal with the Depression was not a sign that monetary policy was impotent, but that the
Federal Reserve implemented the wrong policies. They did not claim the Fed caused the depression, only that it failed to use
policies that might have stopped a recession from turning into a depression.
The U.S. economy during this period went through a number of cycles of boom and bust. The depressions often seemed to be set off by bank panics, the most
significant occurring in 1873, 1893, 1901, 1907, and 1920.[9] Before the 1913 establishment of the Federal Reserve, the banking system had dealt with these crises in
the U.S. (such as in the Panic of 1907) by suspending the convertibility of deposits into currency. Starting in 1893, there were growing efforts by financial institutions
and business men to intervene during these crises, providing liquidity to banks that were suffering runs. During the banking panic of 1907, an ad-hoc coalition
assembled by J. P. Morgan successfully intervened in this way, thereby cutting off the panic, which was likely the reason why the depression that would normally
have followed a banking panic did not happen this time. A call by some for a government version of this solution resulted in the establishment of the Federal Reserve.
[10]
But in 1928–32, the Federal Reserve did not act to provide liquidity to banks suffering runs. In fact, its policy contributed to the banking crisis by permitting a sudden
contraction of the money supply. During the Roaring Twenties, the central bank had set as its primary goal "price stability", in part because the governor of the New
York Federal Reserve, Benjamin Strong, was a disciple of Irving Fisher, a tremendously popular economist who popularized stable prices as a monetary goal. It had
kept the number of dollars at such an amount that prices of goods in society appeared stable. In 1928, Strong died, and with his death this policy ended, to be replaced
with a real bills doctrine requiring that all currency or securities have material goods backing them. This policy permitted the US money supply to fall by over a third
from 1929 to 1933.[11]
Crowd at New York's American Union
Bank during a bank run early in the Great
Depression.
Crowd gathering on Wall Street after the
1929 crash.
When this money shortage caused runs on banks, the Fed maintained its true bills policy, refusing to lend money to the banks in the way that had cut short the 1907
panic, instead allowing each to suffer a catastrophic run and fail entirely. This policy resulted in a series of bank failures in which one-third of all banks vanished.[12]
According to Ben Bernanke, the subsequent credit crunches led to waves of bankruptcies.[13] Friedman said that if a policy similar to 1907 had been followed during
the banking panic at the end of 1930, perhaps this would have stopped the vicious circle of the forced liquidation of assets at depressed prices. Consequently, the
banking panics of 1931, 1932, and 1933 might not have happened, just as suspension of convertibility in 1893 and 1907 had quickly ended the liquidity crises at the
time.”[14]
Monetarist explanations had been rejected in Samuelson's work Economics, writing "Today few economists regard Federal Reserve monetary policy as a panacea for
controlling the business cycle. Purely monetary factors are considered to be as much symptoms as causes, albeit symptoms with aggravating effects that should not be
completely neglected."[15] According to Keynesian economist Paul Krugman, the work of Friedman and Schwartz became dominant among mainstream economists
by the 1980s but should be reconsidered in light of Japan's Lost Decade of the 1990s.[16] The role of monetary policy in financial crises is in active debate regarding
the 2007–12 global financial crisis; see Causes of the 2007–12 global financial crisis.
Additional modern nonmonetary explanations
The monetary explanation has two weaknesses. First it is not able to explain why the demand for money was falling more rapidly than the supply during the initial
downturn in 1930-31.[17] Second it is not able to explain why in March 1933 a recovery took place although short term interest rates remained close to zero and the
Money supply was still falling. These questions are addressed by modern explanations that build on the monetary explanation of Milton Friedman and Anna
Schwartz but add non-monetary explanations.
Debt deflation
Total debt to GDP levels in the U.S. reached a high of just under 300% by the time of the Depression. This level of debt was
not exceeded again until near the end of the 20th century.[18]
Jerome (1934) gives an unattributed quote about finance conditions that allowed the great industrial expansion of the post
WW I period:
Probably never before in this country had such a volume of funds been available at such low rates for such a long
period.[19]
Furthermore, Jerome says that the volume of new capital issues increased at a 7.7% compounded annual rate from 1922
–29 at a time when the Standard Statistics Co.'s index of 60 high grade bonds yielded from 4.98% in 1923 to 4.47% in
1927.
There was also a real estate and housing bubble in the 1920s, especially in Florida, which burst in 1925. Alvin Hansen
stated that housing construction during the 1920s decade exceeded population growth by 25%.[20] See also:Florida land
boom of the 1920s
Irving Fisher argued that the predominant factor leading to the Great Depression was over-indebtedness and deflation.
Fisher tied loose credit to over-indebtedness, which fueled speculation and asset bubbles.[21] He then outlined nine factors
interacting with one another under conditions of debt and deflation to create the mechanics of boom to bust. The chain of
events proceeded as follows:
1. Debt liquidation and distress selling
2. Contraction of the money supply as bank loans are paid off
3. A fall in the level of asset prices
4. A still greater fall in the net worths of business, precipitating bankruptcies
5. A fall in profits
6. A reduction in output, in trade and in employment.
7. Pessimism and loss of confidence
8. Hoarding of money
9. A fall in nominal interest rates and a rise in deflation adjusted interest rates.[21]
During the Crash of 1929 preceding the Great Depression, margin requirements were only 10%.[22] Brokerage firms, in
other words, would lend $90 for every $10 an investor had deposited. When the market fell, brokers called in these loans,
which could not be paid back. Banks began to fail as debtors defaulted on debt and depositors attempted to withdraw
their deposits en masse, triggering multiple bank runs. Government guarantees and Federal Reserve banking regulations
to prevent such panics were ineffective or not used. Bank failures led to the loss of billions of dollars in assets.[23]
Outstanding debts became heavier, because prices and incomes fell by 20–50% but the debts remained at the same dollar
amount. After the panic of 1929, and during the first 10 months of 1930, 744 US banks failed. (In all, 9,000 banks failed
during the 1930s). By April 1933, around $7 billion in deposits had been frozen in failed banks or those left unlicensed
after the March Bank Holiday.[24]
Bank failures snowballed as desperate bankers called in loans, which the borrowers did not have time or money to repay.
With future profits looking poor, capital investment and construction slowed or completely ceased. In the face of bad
loans and worsening future prospects, the surviving banks became even more conservative in their lending.[23] Banks
built up their capital reserves and made fewer loans, which intensified deflationary pressures. A vicious cycle developed
and the downward spiral accelerated.
The liquidation of debt could not keep up with the fall of prices it caused. The mass effect of the stampede to liquidate increased the value of each dollar owed,
relative to the value of declining asset holdings. The very effort of individuals to lessen their burden of debt effectively increased it. Paradoxically, the more the
debtors paid, the more they owed.[21] This self-aggravating process turned a 1930 recession into a 1933 great depression.
Fisher's debt-deflation theory initially lacked mainstream influence because of the counter-argument that debt-deflation represented no more than a redistribution
from one group (debtors) to another (creditors). Pure re-distributions should have no significant macroeconomic effects.
Building on both the monetary hypothesis of Milton Friedman and Anna Schwartz as well as the debt deflation hypothesis of Irving Fisher, Ben Bernanke developed
an alternative way in which the financial crisis affected output. He builds on Fisher's argument that dramatic declines in the price level and nominal incomes lead to
increasing real debt burdens which in turn leads to debtor insolvency and consequently leads to lowered aggregate demand, a further decline in the price level then
results in a debt deflationary spiral. According to Bernanke, a small decline in the price level simply reallocates wealth from debtors to creditors without doing
damage to the economy. But when the deflation is severe falling asset prices along with debtor bankruptcies lead to a decline in the nominal value of assets on bank
balance sheets. Banks will react by tightening their credit conditions, that in turn leads to a credit crunch which does serious harm to the economy. A credit crunch
lowers investment and consumption and results in declining aggregate demand which additionally contributes to the deflationary spiral.[25][26][27]
Economist Steve Keen revived the Debt-Reset Theory after he accurately predicted the 2008 recession based on his analysis of the Great Depression, and recently
advised Congress to engage in debt-forgiveness or direct payments to citizens in order to avoid future financial events.[28] Some people support the Debt-Reset
Theory.[29][30][31]
Expectations hypothesis
Expectations have been a central element of macroeconomic models since the economic mainstream accepted the new neoclassical synthesis. While not rejecting that
it was inadequate demand that sustained the depression, according to Peter Temin, Barry Wigmore, Gauti B. Eggertsson and Christina Romer the key to recovery and
the end of the Great Depression was the successful management of public expectations. This thesis is based on the observation that after years of deflation and a very
severe recession, important economic indicators turned positive in March 1933, just as Franklin D. Roosevelt took office. Consumer prices turned from deflation to a
mild inflation, industrial production bottomed out in March 1933, investment doubled in 1933 with a turnaround in March 1933. There were no monetary forces to
explain that turnaround. Money supply was still falling and short term interest rates remained close to zero. Before March 1933, people expected a further deflation
and recession so that even interest rates at zero did not stimulate investment. But when Roosevelt announced major regime changes people began to expect inflation
and an economic expansion. With those expectations, interest rates at zero began to stimulate investment as planned. Roosevelt's fiscal and monetary policy regime
change helped to make his policy objectives credible. The expectation of higher future income and higher future inflation stimulated demand and investments. The
analysis suggests that the elimination of the policy dogmas of the gold standard, a balanced budget in times of crises and small government led endogenously to a
large shift in expectation that accounts for about 70–80 percent of the recovery of output and prices from 1933 to 1937. If the regime change had not happened and
the Hoover policy had continued, the economy would have continued its free fall in 1933, and output would have been 30 percent lower in 1937 than in 1933.
[32][33][34]
The recession of 1937–38, which slowed down economic recovery from the great depression, is explained by fears of the population that the moderate tightening of
the monetary and fiscal policy in 1937 would be first steps to a restoration of the pre March 1933 policy regime.[35]
Heterodox theories
Austrian School
Austrian economists argue that the Great Depression was the inevitable outcome of the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve during the 1920s. In their opinion,
the central bank's policy was an "easy credit policy" which led to an unsustainable credit-driven boom. In the Austrian view, the inflation of the money supply during
this period led to an unsustainable boom in both asset prices (stocks and bonds) and capital goods. By the time the Federal Reserve belatedly tightened monetary
policy in 1928, it was too late to avoid a significant economic contraction.[36] Austrians argue that government intervention after the crash of 1929 delayed the
market’s adjustment and made the road to complete recovery more difficult.[37][38]
Acceptance of the Austrian explanation of what primarily caused the Great Depression is compatible with either acceptance or denial of the Monetarist explanation.
Austrian economist Murray Rothbard, who wrote America's Great Depression (1963), rejected the Monetarist explanation. He criticized Milton Friedman's assertion
that the central bank failed to sufficiently increase the supply of money, claiming instead that the Federal Reserve did pursue an inflationary policy when, in 1932, it
purchased $1.1 billion of government securities, which raised its total holding to $1.8 billion. Rothbard says that despite the central bank's policies, "total bank
reserves only rose by $212 million, while the total money supply fell by $3 billion". The reason for this, he argues, is that the American populace lost faith in the
banking system and began hoarding more cash, a factor very much beyond the control of the Central Bank. The potential for a run on the banks caused local bankers
to be more conservative in lending out their reserves, which, according to Rothbard's argument, was the cause of the Federal Reserve's inability to inflate.[39]
Friedrich Hayek had criticised the FED and the Bank of England in the 1930s for not taking a more contractionary stance.[40] However, in 1975, Hayek admitted that
he made a mistake in the 1930s in not opposing the Central Bank's deflationary policy and stated the reason why he had been ambivalent: "At that time I believed that
a process of deflation of some short duration might break the rigidity of wages which I thought was incompatible with a functioning economy.[41] In 1978, he made it
clear that he agreed with the point of view of the Monetarists, saying, "I agree with Milton Friedman that once the Crash had occurred, the Federal Reserve System
pursued a silly deflationary policy", and that he was as opposed to deflation as he was to inflation.[42] Concordantly, economist Lawrence White argues that the
business cycle theory of Hayek is inconsistent with a monetary policy which permits a severe contraction of the money supply.
Hans Sennholz argued that most boom and busts that plagued the American economy in 1819-20, 1839–43, 1857–60, 1873–78, 1893–97, and 1920–21, were
generated by government creating a boom through easy money and credit, which was soon followed by the inevitable bust. The spectacular crash of 1929 followed
five years of reckless credit expansion by the Federal Reserve System under the Coolidge Administration. The passing of the Sixteenth Amendment, the passage of
The Federal Reserve Act, rising government deficits, the passage of the Hawley-Smoot Tariff Act, and the Revenue Act of 1932, exacerbated the crisis, prolonging it.
[43]
Marxian
Marxists generally argue that the Great Depression was the result of the inherent instability of the capitalist model.[44]
Specific theories of cause
Non-debt deflation
In addition to the debt deflation there was a component of productivity deflation that had been occurring since The Great Deflation of the last quarter of the 19th
century.[45] There may have also been a continuation of the correction to the sharp inflation caused by WW I.
Oil prices reached their all-time low in the early 1930s as production began from the East Texas Oil Field, the largest field ever found in the lower 48 states. With the
oil market oversupplied prices locally fell to below ten cents per barrel.[46]
Productivity or technology shock
In the first three decades of the 20th century productivity and economic output surged due in part to electrification, mass production and the increasing motorization
of transportation and farm machinery. Electrification and mass production techniques such as Fordism permanently lowered the demand for labor relative to
economic output.[1][47] By the late 1920s the resultant rapid growth in productivity and investment in manufacturing meant there was a considerable excess production
capacity.[48]
Sometime after the peak of the business cycle in 1923, more workers were displaced by productivity improvements than growth in the employment market could
meet, causing unemployment to slowly rise after 1925.[49] [1] Also, the work week fell slightly in the decade prior to the depression.[50][51][52] Wages did not keep up
with productivity growth, which led to the problem of underconsumption.[1]
Henry Ford and Edward A. Filene were among prominent businessmen who were concerned with overproduction and underconsumption. Ford doubled wages of his
workers in 1914. The over-production problem was also discussed in Congress, with Senator Reed Smoot proposing an import tariff, which became the Smoot
–Hawley Tariff Act. The Smoot–Hawley Tariff was enacted in June, 1930. The tariff was misguided because the U.S. had been running a trade account surplus
during the 1920s.[1]
Another effect of rapid technological change was that after 1910 the rate of capital investment slowed, primarily due to reduced investment in business structures.[47]
The depression led to additional large numbers of plant closings.[19]
It cannot be emphasized too strongly that the [productivity, output and employment] trends we are describing are long-time trends and were thoroughly
evident prior to 1929. These trends are in nowise the result of the present depression, nor are they the result of the World War. On the contrary, the
present depression is a collapse resulting from these long-term trends. — M. King Hubbert[53]
In the book Mechanization in Industry, whose publication was sponsored by the National Bureau of Economic Research, Jerome (1934) noted that whether
mechanization tends to increase output or displace labor depends on the elasticity of demand for the product.[19] In addition, reduced costs of production were not
always passed on to consumers. It was further noted that agriculture was adversely affected by the reduced need for animal feed as horses and mules were displaced
by inanimate sources of power following WW I. As a related point, Jerome also notes that the term "technological unemployment" was being used to describe the
labor situation during the depression.[19]
Some portion of the increased unemployment which characterized the post-War years in the United States may be attributed to the mechanization of
industries producing commodities of inelastic demand. — Fredrick C. Wells, 1934[19]
The dramatic rise in productivity of major industries in the U. S. and the effects of productivity on output, wages and the work week are discussed by a Brookings
Institution sponsored book.[45]
Corporations decided to lay off workers and reduced the amount of raw materials they purchased to manufacture their products. This decision was made to cut the
production of goods because of the amount of products that were not being sold.[6]
Joseph Stiglitz and Bruce Greenwald suggested that it was a productivity-shock in agriculture, through fertilizers, mechanization and improved seed, that caused the
drop in agricultural product prices. Farmers were forced off the land, further adding to the excess labor supply.[54]
The prices of agricultural products began to decline after WW I and eventually many farmers were forced out of business, causing the failure of hundreds of small
rural banks. Agricultural productivity resulting from tractors, fertilizers and hybrid corn was only part of the problem; the other problem was the change over from
horses and mules to internal combustion transportation. The horse and mule population began declining after WW 1, freeing up enormous quantities of land
previously used for animal feed.[19][55][56]
The rise of the internal combustion engine and increasing numbers of motorcars and buses also halted the growth of electric street railways.[57]
The years 1929 to 1941 had the highest total factor productivity growth in the history of the U. S., largely due to the productivity increases in public utilities,
transportation and trade.[58]
Disparities in wealth and income
Economists such as Waddill Catchings, William Trufant Foster, Rexford Tugwell, Adolph Berle (and later John Kenneth Galbraith), popularized a theory that had
some influence on Franklin D. Roosevelt.[59] This theory held that the economy produced more goods than consumers could purchase, because the consumers did not
have enough income.[60][61][62] According to this view, in the 1920s wages had increased at a lower rate than productivity growth, which had been high. Most of the
benefit of the increased productivity went into profits, which went into the stock market bubble rather than into consumer purchases. Thus workers did not have
enough income to absorb the large amount of capacity that had been added.[1]
According to this view, the root cause of the Great Depression was a global overinvestment while the level of wages and earnings from independent businesses fell
short of creating enough purchasing power. It was argued that government should intervene by an increased taxation of the rich to help make income more equal.
With the increased revenue the government could create public works to increase employment and ‘kick start’ the economy. In the USA the economic policies had
been quite the opposite until 1932. The Revenue Act of 1932 and public works programmes introduced in Hoover's last year as president and taken up by Roosevelt,
created some redistribution of purchasing power.[62][63]
The stock market crash made it evident that banking systems Americans were relying on were not dependable. Americans looked towards insubstantial banking units
for their own liquidity supply. As the economy began to fail, these banks were no longer able to support those who depended on their assets – they did not hold as
much power as the larger banks. During the depression, “three waves of bank failures shook the economy.”[64] The first wave came just when the economy was
heading in the direction of recovery at the end of 1930 and the beginning of 1931. The second wave of bank failures occurred “after the Federal Reserve System
raised the rediscount rate to staunch an outflow of gold”[64] around the end of 1931. The last wave, which began in the middle of 1932, was the worst and most
devastating, continuing “almost to the point of a total breakdown of the banking system in the winter of 1932–1933.”[64] The reserve banks led the United States into
an even deeper depression between 1931 and 1933, due to their failure to appreciate and put to use the powers they withheld – capable of creating money – as well as
the “inappropriate monetary policies pursued by them during these years”.[64]
Gold Standard system
New York stock market index
According to the gold standard theory of the Depression, the Depression was largely caused by the decision of most western nations after World War I to return to the
gold standard at the pre-war gold price. Monetary policy, according to this view, was thereby put into a deflationary setting that would over the next decade slowly
grind away at the health of many European economies.
This post-war policy was preceded by an inflationary policy during World War I, when many European nations abandoned the gold standard, forced by the enormous
costs of the war. This resulted in inflation because the supply of new money that was created was spent on war, not on investments in productivity to increase demand
that would have neutralized inflation. The view is that the quantity of new money introduced largely determines the inflation rate, and therefore, the cure to inflation
is to reduce the amount of new currency created for purposes that are destructive or wasteful, and do not lead to economic growth.
After the war, when America and the nations of Europe went back on the gold standard, most nations decided to return to the gold standard at the pre-war price.
When Britain, for example, passed the Gold Standard Act of 1925, thereby returning Britain to the gold standard, the critical decision was made to set the new price
of the Pound Sterling at parity with the pre-war price even though the pound was then trading on the foreign exchange market at a much lower price. At the time, this
action was criticized by John Maynard Keynes and others, who argued that in so doing, they were forcing a revaluation of wages without any tendency to
equilibrium. Keynes' criticism of Winston Churchill's form of the return to the gold standard implicitly compared it to the consequences of the Treaty of Versailles.
One of the reasons for setting the currencies at parity with the pre-war price was the prevailing opinion at that time that deflation was not a danger, while inflation,
particularly the inflation in the Weimar Republic, was an unbearable danger. Another reason was that those who had loaned in nominal amounts hoped to recover the
same value in gold that they had lent. Because of the reparations that Germany had to pay France, Germany began a credit-fueled period of growth in order to export
and sell enough goods abroad to gain gold to pay the reparations. The U.S., as the world's gold sink, loaned money to Germany to industrialize, which was then the
basis for Germany paying back France, and France paying back loans to the U.K. and the U.S. This arrangement was codified in the Dawes Plan.
In some cases, deflation can be hard on sectors of the economy such as agriculture, if they are deeply in debt at high interest rates and are unable to refinance, or that
are dependent upon loans to finance capital goods when low interest rates are not available. Deflation erodes the price of commodities while increasing the real
liability of debt. Deflation is beneficial to those with assets in cash, and to those who wish to invest or purchase assets or loan money.
More recent research, by economists such as Peter Temin, Ben Bernanke and Barry Eichengreen, has focused on the constraints policy makers were under at the time
of the Depression. In this view, the constraints of the inter-war gold standard magnified the initial economic shock and were a significant obstacle to any actions that
would ameliorate the growing Depression. According to them, the initial destabilizing shock may have originated with the Wall Street Crash of 1929 in the U.S., but
it was the gold standard system that transmitted the problem to the rest of the world.[65]
According to their conclusions, during a time of crisis, policy makers may have wanted to loosen monetary and fiscal policy, but such action would threaten the
countries’ ability to maintain their obligation to exchange gold at its contractual rate. The gold standard required countries to maintain high interest rates to attract
international investors who bought foreign assets with gold. Therefore, governments had their hands tied as the economies collapsed, unless they abandoned their
currency’s link to gold. Fixing the exchange rate of all countries on the gold standard ensured that the market for foreign exchange can only equilibrate through
interest rates. As the Depression worsened, many countries started to abandon the gold standard, and those that abandoned it earlier suffered less from deflation and
tended to recover more quickly.[66]
Richard Timberlake, economist of the free banking school and protégé of Milton Friedman, specifically addressed this stance in his paper Gold Standards and the
Real Bills Doctrine in U.S. Monetary Policy, wherein he argued that the Federal Reserve actually had plenty of lee-way under the gold standard, as had been
demonstrated by the price stability policy of New York Fed governor Benjamin Strong, between 1923 and 1928. But when Strong died in late 1928, the faction that
took over dominance of the Fed advocated a real bills doctrine, where all money had to be represented by physical goods. This policy, forcing a 30% deflation of the
dollar that inevitably damaged the US economy, is stated by Timberlake as being arbitrary and avoidable, the existing gold standard having been capable of
continuing without it:
This shift in control was decisive. In accordance with the precedent Strong had set in promoting a stable price level policy without heed to any golden fetters,
real bills proponents could proceed equally unconstrained in implementing their policy ideal. System policy in 1928–29 consequently shifted from price level
stabilization to passive real bills. “The” gold standard remained where it had been—nothing but formal window dressing waiting for an opportune time to
reappear.[67]
Financial institution structures
Economic historians (especially Friedman and Schwartz) emphasize the importance of numerous
bank failures. The failures were mostly in rural America. Structural weaknesses in the rural
economy made local banks highly vulnerable. Farmers, already deeply in debt, saw farm prices
plummet in the late 1920s and their implicit real interest rates on loans skyrocket.
Their land was already over-mortgaged (as a result of the 1919 bubble in land prices), and crop
prices were too low to allow them to pay off what they owed. Small banks, especially those tied to
the agricultural economy, were in constant crisis in the 1920s with their customers defaulting on
loans because of the sudden rise in real interest rates; there was a steady stream of failures among
these smaller banks throughout the decade.
The city banks also suffered from structural weaknesses that made them vulnerable to a shock.
Some of the nation's largest banks were failing to maintain adequate reserves and were investing
heavily in the stock market or making risky loans. Loans to Germany and Latin America by New
York City banks were especially risky. In other words, the banking system was not well prepared
to absorb the shock of a major recession.
Economists have argued that a liquidity trap might have contributed to bank failures.
Economists and historians debate how much responsibility to assign the Wall Street Crash of 1929. The timing was right; the magnitude of the shock to expectations
of future prosperity was high. Most analysts believe the market in 1928–29 was a "bubble" with prices far higher than justified by fundamentals. Economists agree
that somehow it shared some blame, but how much no one has estimated. Milton Friedman concluded, "I don't doubt for a moment that the collapse of the stock
market in 1929 played a role in the initial recession".[68]
The idea of owning government bonds initially became ideal to investors when Liberty Loan drives encouraged this possession in America during World War I. This
strive for dominion persisted into the 1920s. After World War I, the United States became the world’s creditor and was depended upon by many foreign nations.
“Governments from around the globe looked to Wall Street for loans”.[69] Investors then started to depend on these loans for further investments. Chief counsel of the
Senate Bank Committee, Ferdinand Pecora, disclosed that National City executives were also dependent on loans from a special bank fund as a safety net for their
stock losses while American banker, Albert Wiggin, “made millions selling short his own bank shares”.[69]
Economist David Hume stated that the economy became imbalanced as the recession spread on an international scale. The cost of goods remained too high for too
long during a time where there was less international trade. Policies set in selected countries to “maintain the value of their currency” resulted in an outcome of bank
failures.[70] Governments that continued to follow the gold standard were led into bank failure, meaning that it was the governments and central bankers that
contributed as a stepping stool into the depression.
The debate has three sides: one group says the crash caused the depression by drastically lowering expectations about the future and by removing large sums of
investment capital; a second group says the economy was slipping since summer 1929 and the crash ratified it; the third group says that in either scenario the crash
could not have caused more than a recession. There was a brief recovery in the market into April 1930, but prices then started falling steadily again from there, not
reaching a final bottom until July 1932. This was the largest long-term U.S. market decline by any measure. To move from a recession in 1930 to a deep depression
in 1931–32, entirely different factors had to be in play.[71]
Protectionism
Protectionism, such as the Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act, is often indicted as a cause of the Great Depression, with countries enacting protectionist policies yielding a
beggar thy neighbor result.[72][73] The Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act was especially harmful to agriculture because it caused farmers to default on their loans. This event
may have worsened or even caused the ensuing bank runs in the Midwest and West that caused the collapse of the banking system. A petition signed by over 1,000
economists was presented to the U.S. government warning that the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act would bring disastrous economic repercussions; however, this did not
stop the act from being signed into law.
Governments around the world took various steps into spending less money on foreign goods such as: “imposing tariffs, import quotas, and exchange
controls” (Eichengreen, B.). These restrictions formed a lot of tension between trade nations, causing a major deduction during the depression. Not all countries
enforced the same measures of protectionism. Some countries raised tariffs drastically and enforced severe restrictions on foreign exchange transactions, while other
countries condensed “trade and exchange restrictions only marginally”.[74]
“Countries that remained on the gold standard, keeping currencies fixed, were more likely to restrict foreign trade.” These countries became more competitive and
“resorted to protectionist policies to strengthen the balance of payments and limit gold losses.” They hoped that these restrictions and depletions would lead them
towards economic recovery. On the other hand, countries that chose to alleviate the gold standard, allowing fluidity in their currencies, experienced economic
recovery and “benefited from gold inflows”.[74]
There were three options left that could lead economies back to recovery. These options were: “wage and price deflation to restore external and internal balance at the
current gold parity; trade and payments restrictions to limit spending on imports and reduce gold outflows; or abandoning the gold standard and allowing the
exchange rate to depreciate”.[74]
Some economists argue that protectionism was not a cause but a reaction to the depression,[73] with protectionism policies being adopted by countries holding to the
gold standard rather than having floating exchange rates: countries on the gold standard could not cut interest rates or act as lender of last resort because they would
run out of gold, while countries off the gold standard could cut interest rates and print fiat money. In this interpretation, protectionism served to change the terms of
trade for countries whose monetary policy was constrained by the gold standard.
International Debt Structure
When the war came to an end in 1918, all European nations that had been allied with the U.S. owed large sums of money to American banks, sums much too large to
be repaid out of their shattered treasuries. This is one reason why the Allies had insisted (to the consternation of Woodrow Wilson) on demanding reparation
payments from Germany and Austria–Hungary. Reparations, they believed, would provide them with a way to pay off their own debts. However, Germany and
Austria-Hungary were themselves in deep economic trouble after the war; they were no more able to pay the reparations than the Allies were able to pay their debts.
The debtor nations put strong pressure on the U.S. in the 1920s to forgive the debts, or at least reduce them. The American government refused. Instead, U.S. banks
began making large loans to the nations of Europe. Thus, debts (and reparations) were being paid only by augmenting old debts and piling up new ones. In the late
1920s, and particularly after the American economy began to weaken after 1929, the European nations found it much more difficult to borrow money from the U.S.
At the same time, high U.S. tariffs were making it much more difficult for them to sell their goods in U.S. markets. Without any source of revenue from foreign
exchange to repay their loans, they began to default.
Beginning late in the 1920s, European demand for U.S. goods began to decline. That was partly because European industry and agriculture were becoming more
productive, and partly because some European nations (most notably Weimar Germany) were suffering serious financial crises and could not afford to buy goods
overseas. However, the central issue causing the destabilization of the European economy in the late 1920s was the international debt structure that had emerged in
the aftermath of World War I.
The high tariff walls such as the Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act critically impeded the payment of war debts. As a result of high U.S. tariffs, only a sort of cycle kept the
reparations and war-debt payments going. During the 1920s, the former allies paid the war-debt installments to the U.S. chiefly with funds obtained from German
reparations payments, and Germany was able to make those payments only because of large private loans from the U.S. and Britain. Similarly, U.S. investments
abroad provided the dollars, which alone made it possible for foreign nations to buy U.S. exports.
The Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act was instituted by Senator Reed Smoot and Representative Willis C. Hawley, and signed into law by President Hoover, to raise taxes on
American imports by about 20 percent during June 1930. This tax, which aided towards the exceedingly damaged American income and overproduction, was only
beneficial towards the Americans in having to spend less on foreign goods. In contrast, European trading nations frowned upon this tax increase, particularly since
the “United States was an international creditor and exports to the U.S. market were already declining”.[74] In response to the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act, some of
America’s primary producers and largest trading partner, Canada, chose to seek retribution by increasing the financial value of imported goods favoured by the
Americans.
In the scramble for liquidity that followed the 1929 stock market crash, funds flowed back from Europe to America, and Europe's fragile economies crumbled.
By 1931, the world was reeling from the worst depression of recent memory, and the entire structure of reparations and war debts collapsed.
Population dynamics
In 1939, prominent economist Alvin Hansen discussed the decline in population growth in relation to the Depression.[75] The same idea was discussed in a 1978
journal article by Clarence Barber, an economist at the University of Manitoba. Using "a form of the Harrod model" to analyze the Depression, Barber states:
In such a model, one would look for the origins of a serious depression in conditions which produced a decline in Harrod's natural rate of growth, more
specifically, in a decline in the rate of population and labour force growth and in the rate of growth of productivity or technical progress, to a level below
the warranted rate of growth.[76]
The Great Depression in an international context.
Barber says, while there is "no clear evidence" of a decline in "the rate of growth of productivity" during the 1920s, there is "clear evidence" the population growth
rate began to decline during that same period. He argues the decline in population growth rate may have caused a decline in "the natural rate of growth" which was
significant enough to cause a serious depression.[76]
Barber says a decline in the population growth rate is likely to affect the demand for housing, and claims this is apparently what happened during the 1920s. He
concludes:
the rapid and very large decline in the rate of growth of non-farm households was clearly the major reason for the decline that occurred in residential
construction in the United States from 1926 on. And this decline, as Bolch and Pilgrim have claimed, may well have been the most important single
factor in turning the 1929 downturn into a major depression.[77]
The decline in housing construction that can be attributed to demographics has been estimated to range from 28% in 1933 to 38% in 1940.[78]
Among the causes of the decline in the population growth rate during the 1920s were a declining birth rate after 1910[79] and reduced immigration. The decline in
immigration was largely the result of legislation in the 1920s placing greater restrictions on immigration. In 1921, Congress passed the Emergency Quota Act,
followed by the Immigration Act of 1924.
Factors that majorly contributed to the failing of the economy since 1925, was a decrease in both residential and non-residential buildings being constructed. It was
the debt as a result of the war, less families being formed, and an imbalance of mortgage payments and loans in 1928–29 that mainly contributed to the decline in the
amount of houses being built. This caused the populate growth rate to decelerate. Though non-residential units continued to be built “at a high rate throughout the
decade”, the demands for such units were actually very low[64]
Role of economic policy
Calvin Coolidge (1923–29)
There is an ongoing debate between historians as to what extent President Calvin Coolidge's laissez-faire hands-off attitude has contributed to the Great Depression.
Despite a growing rate of bank failures he did not heed voices that predicted the lack of banking regulation as potentially dangerous. He did not listen to members of
Congress warning that stock speculation had gone too far and he ignored criticisms that workers did not participate sufficiently in the prosperity of the Roaring
Twenties.[80]
Leave-it-alone liquidationism (1929–33)
Overview
From the point of view of today's mainstream schools of economic thought, government
should strive to keep some broad nominal aggregate on a stable growth path (for
proponents of new classical macroeconomics and monetarism, the measure is the nominal
money supply; for Keynesian economists it is the nominal aggregate demand itself).
During a depression the central bank should pour liquidity into the banking system and the
government should cut taxes and accelerate spending in order to keep the nominal money
stock and total nominal demand from collapsing.[81]
The United States government and the Federal Reserve did not do that during the 1929-32
slide into the Great Depression[81] The existence of "liquidationism" played a key part in
motivating public policy decisions not to fight the gathering Great Depression. An
increasingly common view among economic historians is that the adherence of some
Federal Reserve policymakers to the liquidationist thesis led to disastrous consequences.
[82] Regarding the policies of President Hoover, economists Barry Eichengreen and J.
Bradford DeLong point out that the Hoover administration’s fiscal policy was guided by
liquidationist economists and policy makers, as Hoover tried to keep the federal budget
balanced until 1932, when Hoover lost confidence in his Secretary of the Treasury
Andrew Mellon and replaced him.[83][84][85] Hoover wrote in his memoirs he did not side
with the liquidationists, but took the side of those in his cabinet with "economic responsibility", his Secretary of Commerce Robert P. Lamont and Secretary of
Agriculture Arthur M. Hyde, who advised the President to "use the powers of government to cushion the situation".[86] But at the same time he kept Andrew Mellon
as Secretary of the Treasury until February 1932. It was during 1932 that Hoover began to support more aggressive measures to combat the Depression.[87] In his
memoirs, President Hoover wrote bitterly about members of his Cabinet who had advised inaction during the downslide into the Great Depression:
The leave-it-alone liquidationists headed by Secretary of the Treasury Mellon ... felt that government must keep its hands off and let the slump liquidate
itself. Mr. Mellon had only one formula: "Liquidate labor, liquidate stocks, liquidate the farmers, liquidate real estate ... It will purge the rottenness out of
the system. High costs of living and high living will come down. People will work harder, live a more moral life. Values will be adjusted, and
enterprising people will pick up the wrecks from less competent people."[81]
Before the Keynesian Revolution, such a liquidationist theory was a common position for economists to take and was held and advanced by economists like Friedrich
Hayek, Lionel Robbins Joseph Schumpeter, Seymour Harris and others.[85] According to the liquidationists a depression is good medicine. The function of a
depression is to liquidate failed investments and businesses that have been made obsolete by technological development in order to release factors of production
(capital and labor) from unproductive uses. These can then be redeployed in other sectors of the technologically dynamic economy. They pointed to the short duration
of the Depression of 1920–21 was due to the policy of letting the liquidation occur and argued that the crisis had laid the groundwork for the prosperity of the later
1920s. They pushed for deflationary policies (which were already executed in 1921) which – in their opinion – would assist the release of capital and labor from
unproductive activities to lay the groundwork for a new economic boom. The liquidationists argued that even if self-adjustment of the economy took mass
bankruptcies, then so be it.[85] Postponing the liquidation process would only magnify the social costs. Schumpeter wrote that it[81]
... leads us to believe that recovery is sound only if it does come of itself. For any revival which is merely due to artificial stimulus leaves part of the
work of depressions undone and adds, to an undigested remnant of maladjustment, new maladjustment of its own which has to be liquidated in turn, thus
threatening business with another (worse) crisis ahead.
Unemployment rate in the US 1910–60, with the years of the
Great Depression (1929–39) highlighted; accurate data
begins in 1939.
Federal spending in millions of dollars (1910–60). The time
period of the Hoover administration, the New Deal and
World War II are highlighted.
Despite liquidationist expectations, a large proportion of the capital stock was not redeployed and vanished during the first years of the Great Depression. According
to a study by Olivier Blanchard and Lawrence Summers, the recession caused a drop of net capital accumulation to pre-1924 levels by 1933.[88]
Criticism
Economists such as John Maynard Keynes and Milton Friedman suggested that the do-nothing policy prescription which resulted from the liquidationist theory
contributed to deepening the Great Depression.[83] With the rhetoric of ridicule Keynes tried to discredit the liquidationist view in presenting Hayek, Robbins and
Schumpeter as
...austere and puritanical souls [who] regard [the Great Depression] ... as an inevitable and a desirable nemesis on so much "overexpansion" as they call
it ... It would, they feel, be a victory for the mammon of unrighteousness if so much prosperity was not subsequently balanced by universal bankruptcy.
We need, they say, what they politely call a 'prolonged liquidation' to put us right. The liquidation, they tell us, is not yet complete. But in time it will be.
And when sufficient time has elapsed for the completion of the liquidation, all will be well with us again...
Milton Friedman stated that at the University of Chicago such “dangerous nonsense” was never taught and that he understood why at Harvard —where such nonsense
was taught— bright young economists rejected their teachers' macroeconomics, and become Keynesians.[81] He wrote:
I think the Austrian business-cycle theory has done the world a great deal of harm. If you go back to the 1930s, which is a key point, here you had the
Austrians sitting in London, Hayek and Lionel Robbins, and saying you just have to let the bottom drop out of the world. You’ve just got to let it cure
itself. You can’t do anything about it. You will only make it worse.… I think by encouraging that kind of do-nothing policy both in Britain and in the
United States, they did harm.[83]
Economist Lawrence White, while acknowledging that Hayek and Robbins did not actively oppose the deflationary policy of the early 1930s, nevertheless challenges
the argument of Milton Friedman, J. Bradford DeLong et al. that Hayek was a proponent of liquidationism. White argues that the business cycle theory of Hayek and
Robbins (which later developed into Austrian business cycle theory in its present-day form) was actually not consistent with a monetary policy which permitted a
severe contraction of the money supply. Nevertheless, White says that at the time of the Great Depression Hayek "expressed ambivalence about the shrinking
nomimal income and sharp deflation in 1929–32".[89] In a talk in 1975, Hayek admitted the mistake he made over forty years earlier in not opposing the Central
Bank's deflationary policy and stated the reason why he had been "ambivalent": "At that time I believed that a process of deflation of some short duration might break
the rigidity of wages which I thought was incompatible with a functioning economy."[41] 1979 Hayek strongly criticized the Fed's contractionary monetary policy
early in the Depression and its failure to offer banks liquidity:
I agree with Milton Friedman that once the Crash had occurred, the Federal Reserve System pursued a silly deflationary policy. I am not only against
inflation but I am also against deflation. So, once again, a badly programmed monetary policy prolonged the depression.[42]
Herbert Hoover (1929–33)
Economic policy
Historians gave Hoover credit for working tirelessly to combat the depression and noted that he left
government prematurely aged. But his policies are rated as simply not far-reaching enough to address the
Great Depression. He was prepared to do something, but nowhere near enough.[90] Hoover was no
exponent of laissez-faire. But his principal philosophies were voluntarism, self-help, and rugged
individualism. He refused direct federal intervention. He believed that government should do more than
his immediate predecessors (Warren G. Harding, Calvin Coolidge) believed. But he was not willing to go
as far as Franklin D. Roosevelt later did. Therefore, he is described as the "first of the new presidents" and
"the last of the old".[91]
Hoovers first measures were based on voluntarism by businesses not to reduce their workforce or cut
wages. But businesses had little choice and wages were reduced, workers were laid off, and investments
postponed. Hoover urged bankers to set up the National Credit Corporation so that big banks could help
failing banks survive. But bankers were reluctant to invest in failing banks, and the National Credit
Corporation did almost nothing to address the problem.[92] In 1932 Hoover reluctantly established the
Reconstruction Finance Corporation, a Federal agency with the authority to lend up to $2 billion to rescue
banks and restore confidence in financial institutions. But $2 billion was not enough to save all the banks, and bank runs and bank failures continued.[93]
Federal spending
J. Bradford DeLong explained that Hoover would have been a budget cutter in normal times and
continuously wanted to balance the budget. Hoover held the line against powerful political forces that
sought to increase government spending after the Depression began for fully two and a half years. During
the first two years of the Depression (1929 and 1930) Hoover actually achieved budget surpluses of about
0.8% of gross domestic product (GDP). In 1931, when the recession significantly worsened and GDP
declined by 15%, the federal budget had only a small deficit of 0.6% of GDP. It was not until 1932 (when
GDP declined by 27% compared to 1929-level) that Hoover pushed for measures (Reconstruction
Finance Corporation, Federal Home Loan Bank Act, direct loans to fund state Depression relief
programs) that increased spending. But at the same time he pushed for the Revenue Act of 1932 that
massively increased taxes in order to balance the budget again.[87]
Uncertainty was a major factor, argued by several economists, that contributed to the worsening and
length of the depression. It was also said to be responsible “for the initial decline in consumption that
marks the” beginning of the Great Depression by economists Paul R. Flacco and Randall E. Parker.
Economist Ludwig Lachmann argues that it was pessimism that prevented the recovery and worsening of
the depression[94] President Hoover is said to have been blinded from what was right in front of him.
USA GDP annual pattern and long-term trend, 1920–40, in
billions of constant dollars.
Economist James Deusenberry argues economic imbalance was not only a result of World War I, but also of the structural changes made during the first quarter of
the Twentieth Century. He also states the branches of the nation’s economy became smaller, there was not much demand for housing, and the stock market crash
“had a more direct impact on consumption than any previous financial panic”[95]
Economist William A. Lewis describes the conflict between America and its primary producers:
Misfortunes (of the 1930’s) were due principally to the fact that the production of primary commodities after the war was somewhat in excess of
demand. It was this which, by keeping the terms of trade unfavourable to primary producers, kept the trade in manufactures so low, to the detriment of
some countries as the United Kingdom, even in the twenties, and it was this which pulled the world economy down in the early thirties….If primary
commodity markets had not been so insecure the crisis of 1929 would not have become a great depression....It was the violent fall of prices that was
deflationary.[96]
The stock market crash was not the first sign of the Great Depression. “Long before the crash, community banks were failing at the rate of one per day”.[69] It was the
development of the Federal Reserve System that misled investors in the ‘20s into relying on federal banks as a safety net. They were encouraged to continue buying
stocks and to overlook any of the fluctuations. Economist Roger Babson tried to warn the investors of the deficiency to come, but was ridiculed even as the economy
began to deteriorate during the summer of 1929. While England and Germany struggled under the strain on gold currencies after the war, economists were blinded by
an unsustainable ‘new economy' they sought to be considerably stable and successful.[69]
Since the United States decided to no longer comply with the gold standard, “the value of the dollar could change freely from day to day”.[70] Although this
imbalance on an international scale led to crisis, the economy within the nation remained stable.
The depression then affected all nations on an international scale. “The German mark collapsed when the chancellor put domestic politics ahead of sensible finance;
the bank of England abandoned the gold standard after a subsequent speculative attack; and the U.S. Federal Reserve raised its discount rate dramatically in October
1931 to preserve the value of the dollar”.[70] The Federal Reserve drove the American economy into an even deeper depression.
Tax policy
In 1929 the Hoover administration responded to the economic crises by temporarily lowering income tax rates and the corporate tax rate.[97] At the beginning of 1931,
tax returns showed a tremendous decline in income due to the economic downturn. Income tax receipts were 40% less than in 1930. At the same time government
spending proved to be a lot greater than estimated.[97] As a result, the budget deficit increased tremendously. While Secretary of the Treasury Andrew Mellon urged
to increase taxes, Hoover had no desire to do so since 1932 was an election year.[98] In December 1931, hopes that the economic downturn would come to an end
vanished since all economic indicators pointed to a continuing downward trend.[99] On January 7, 1932, Andrew Mellon announced that the Hoover administration
would end a further increase in public debt by raising taxes.[100] On June 6, 1932, the Revenue Act of 1932 was signed into law. It raised taxes on all brackets, tripling
the tax rate on the poorest, and on the wealthy he increased taxes from 25% to 63%.[101][102] The higher taxes were first to be paid for the fiscal year 1933 when
coincidently the long recession ended.
Franklin Delano Roosevelt (1933–45)
The New Deal was Roosevelt´s response to the Great Depression. The reception is mixed. While some
historians and economists argue that the New Deal was the key to recovery others argue that it prolonged
the Great Depression.
In a survey of economic historians conducted by Robert Whaples, Professor of Economics at Wake Forest
University, anonymous questionnaires were sent to members of the Economic History Association.
Members were asked to either disagree, agree, or agree with provisos with the statement that read:
"Taken as a whole, government policies of the New Deal served to lengthen and deepen the Great
Depression." While only 6% of economic historians who worked in the history department of their
universities agreed with the statement, 27% of those that work in the economics department agreed.
Almost an identical percent of the two groups (21% and 22%) agreed with the statement "with
provisos" (a conditional stipulation), while 74% of those who worked in the history department, and 51%
in the economic department disagreed with the statement outright.[103]
Arguments for key to recovery
According to Peter Temin, Barry Wigmore, Gauti B. Eggertsson and Christina Romer the biggest primary
impact of the New Deal on the economy and the key to recovery and to end the Great Depression was brought about by a successful management of public
expectations. Before the first New Deal measures people expected a contractionary economic situation (recession, deflation) to persist. Roosevelt's fiscal and
monetary policy regime change helped to make his policy objectives credible. Expectations changed towards an expansionary development (economic growth,
inflation). The expectation of higher future income and higher future inflation stimulated demand and investments. The analysis suggests that the elimination of the
policy dogmas of the gold standard, balanced budget and small government led endogenously to a large shift in expectation that accounts for about 70–80 percent of
the recovery of output and prices from 1933 to 1937. If the regime change would not have happened and the Hoover policy would have continued, the economy
would have continued its free fall in 1933, and output would have been 30 percent lower in 1937 than in 1933.[32][33]
Arguments for prolongation of the Great Depression
In the new classical macroeconomics view of the Great Depression large negative shocks caused the 1929–33 downturn – including monetary shocks, productivity
shocks, and banking shocks – but those developments become positive after 1933 due to monetary and banking reform policies. According to the model Cole-
Ohanian impose, the main culprits for the prolonged depression were labor frictions and productivity/efficiency frictions (perhaps, to a lesser extent). Financial
frictions are unlikely to have caused the prolonged slump.[104][105]
In the Cole-Ohanian model there is a slower than normal recovery which they explain by New Deal policies which they evaluated as tending towards monopoly and
distribution of wealth. The key economic paper looking at these diagnostic sources in relation to the Great Depression is Cole and Ohanian’s work. Cole-Ohanian
point at two policies of New Deal: the National Industrial Recovery Act and National Labor Relations Act (NLRA), the latter strengthening NIRA’s labor provision.
According to Cole-Ohanian New Deal policies created cartelization, high wages, and high prices in at least manufacturing and some energy and mining industries.
Roosevelts policies against the severity of the Depression like the NIRA, a “code of fair competition” for each industry were aimed to reduce cutthroat competition in
a period of severe deflation, which was seen as the cause for lowered demand and employment. The NIRA suspended antitrust laws and permitted collusion in some
sectors provided that industry raised wages above clearing level and accepted collective bargaining with labor unions. The effects of cartelization can be seen as the
basic effect of monopoly. The given corporation produces too little, charges too high of a price, and under-employs labor. Likewise, an increase in the power of
unions creates a situation similar to monopoly. Wages are too high for the union members, so the corporation employs fewer people and, produces less output. Cole-
Ohanian show that 60% of the difference between the trend and realized output is due to cartelization and unions.[104] Chari, Kehoe, McGrattan also present a nice
exposition that’s in line with Cole-Ohanian. .[105]
This type of analysis has numerous counterarguments including the applicability of the equilibrium business cycle to the Great Depression.[106]
See also
◾ Political philosophy
◾ Timeline of the Great Depression
Notes
1. Beaudreau, Bernard C. (1996). Mass Production, the Stock Market Crash and the
Great Depression. New York, Lincoln, Shanghi: Authors Choice Press.
2. Field, Alexander J. (2011). A Great Leap Forward: 1930s Depression and U.S.
Economic Growth. New Haven, London: Yale University Press. p. 182. ISBN 978-
0-300-15109-1<Field cites Freeman & Schwartz (1963), Temin (1976), Bernanke
(1983), Field (1984), Romer (1990), Eighengreen (1992).>
3. Robert Whaples, Where Is There Consensus Among American Economic
Historians? The Results of a Survey on Forty Propositions., Journal of Economic
History, Vol. 55, No. 1 (March 1995), p. 150 in JSTOR.
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/2123771)
4. Robert Whaples, Where Is There Consensus Among American Economic
Historians? The Results of a Survey on Forty Propositions., Journal of Economic
History, Vol. 55, No. 1 (March 1995), p. 143 in JSTOR.
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/2123771)
5. Keen 2000, p. 198.
6. Caldwell, J., & O'Driscoll, T. G. (2007). What Caused the Great Depression?.
Social Education, 71(2), 70-74
7. Paul Krugman, "Who Was Milton Friedman?" New York Review of Books Volume
32, Number 32 · February 3, 2007 online community
(http://www.nybooks.com/articles/19857)
8. Friedman 1965, p. 4.
9. The History of Economic Downturns in the US – But Now You Know.net
(http://butnowyouknow.wordpress.com/those-who-fail-to-learn-fromhistory/
history-of-economic-downturns-in-the-us/)
10. * Bruner, Robert F.; Carr, Sean D. (2007). The Panic of 1907: Lessons Learned
from the Market's Perfect Storm. Hoboken, New Jersey: John Wiley & Sons.
ISBN 978-0-470-15263-8
11. Gold Standards and the Real Bills Doctrine in US Monetary Policy, Richard H
Timberlake, published in Econ Journal Watch, August 2005 –
http://www.econjournalwatch.org/pdf/TimberlakeIntellectualTyrannyAugust2005.pdf
12. Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar publishing, 2003,
ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 11
13. Ben Bernanke, "Non-monetary effects of the financial crisis in the propagation of
the Great Depression", (1983) American Economic Review . Am 73#3 257–76.
14. Friedman 2007, p. 15.
15. (Samuelson 1948, p. 353)
16. Samuelson, Friedman, and monetary policy
(http://krugman.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/12/14/samuelson-friedman-and-monetarypolicy/),
Paul Krugman, New York Times Blog, December 14, 2009
17. Robert Whaples, Where Is There Consensus Among American Economic
Historians? The Results of a Survey on Forty Propositions., Journal of Economic
History, Vol. 55, No. 1 (March 1995), p. 150, in JSTOR
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/2123771?seq=1#page_scan_tab_contents)
18. [1] (http://www.johnmauldin.com/images/uploads/pdf/mwo071811.pdf) Several
graphs of total debt to GDP can be found on the Internet.
19. Jerome, Harry (1934). Mechanization in Industry, National Bureau of Economic
Research.
20. Hansen, Alvin (1939). "Economic Progress and Declining Population Growth".
American Economic Review'. 29 (March).
21. Fisher, Irving (October 1933). "The Debt-Deflation Theory of Great Depressions".
Econometrica. The Econometric Society. 1 (4): 337–357. doi:10.2307/1907327.
JSTOR 1907327.
22. Fortune, Peter (Sep–Oct 2000). "Margin Requirements, Margin Loans, and Margin
Rates: Practice and Principles – analysis of history of margin credit regulations –
Statistical Data Included". New England Economic Review.
23. "Bank Failures". Living History Farm. Retrieved 2008-05-22.
24. "Friedman and Schwartz, Monetary History of the United States", 352
25. Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Edward Elgar Publishing,
2003, ISBN 9781843765509, p. 14-15
26. Bernanke, Ben S (June 1983). "Non-Monetary Effects of the Financial Crisis in the
Propagation of the Great Depression". The American Economic Review. The
American Economic Association. 73 (3): 257–276. JSTOR 1808111.
27. Mishkin, Fredric (December 1978). "The Household Balance and the Great
Depression". Journal of Economic History. 38 (4): 918–37.
doi:10.1017/S0022050700087167.
28. Keen, Steve (2012-12-06). "Briefing for Congress on the Fiscal Cliff: Lessons from
the 1930s - Steve Keen's Debtwatch". Debtdeflation.com. Retrieved 2014-12-01.
29. http://libertyloveandjusticeforall.com/2012/12/08/debt-reset-is-inevitable/
30. Friedersdorf, Conor (2012-12-05). "What If the Fiscal Cliff Is the Wrong Cliff?".
The Atlantic. Retrieved 2014-12-01.
31. "Private Debt Caused The Current Great Depression, Not Public Debt - Michael
Clark". Seeking Alpha. Retrieved 2014-12-01.
32. Gauti B. Eggertsson, Great Expectations and the End of the Depression
(http://www.aeaweb.org/articles.php?doi=10.1257/aer.98.4.1476), American
Economic Review 2008, 98:4, 1476–1516
33. The New York Times, Christina Romer, The Fiscal Stimulus, Flawed but Valuable
(http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/21/business/how-the-fiscal-stimulus-helpedand-
could-have-done-more.html?hp&_r=0), October 20, 2012
34. Peter Temin, Lessons from the Great Depression, MIT Press, 1992, ISBN
9780262261197, p. 87-101
35. Gauti B. Eggertsson, Great Expectations and the End of the Depression
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/29730131), The American Economic Review, Vol. 98,
No. 4 (Sep., 2008), S. 1476-1516, p. 1480
36. Murray Rothbard, America's Great Depression (Ludwig von Mises Institute, 2000),
pp. 159–63.
37. Rothbard, America's Great Depression, pp. 19–21"
38. Mises, Ludwig von (2006). The Causes of the Economic Crisis; and Other Essays
Before and After the Great Depression. Ludwig von Mises Institute. p. 207.
ISBN 978-1933550039.
39. Rothbard, A History of Money and Banking in the United States, pp. 293–94.
40. John Cunningham Wood, Robert D. Wood, Friedrich A. Hayek, Taylor & Francis,
2004, ISBN 9780415310574, p. 115
41. White, Clash of Economic Ideas, p. 94. See alsoWhite, Lawrence (2008). "Did
Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?". Journal of Money, Credit and
Banking. 40 (40): 751–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-4616.2008.00134.x.
42. F. A. Hayek, interviewed by Diego Pizano July, 1979 published in: Diego Pizano,
Conversations with Great Economists: Friedrich A. Hayek, John Hicks, Nicholas
Kaldor, Leonid V. Kantorovich, Joan Robinson, Paul A.Samuelson, Jan Tinbergen
(Jorge Pinto Books, 2009).
43. Sennholz, Hans (October 1, 1969). "The Great Depression". Foundation for
Economic Education. Retrieved October 23, 2016.
44. "Lewis Corey: The Decline of American Capitalism (1934)". Marxists.org. 2007-
09-30. Retrieved 2014-12-01.
45. Bell, Spurgeon (1940). "Productivity, Wages and National Income , The Institute of
Economics of the Brookings Institution".
46. Yergin, Daniel (1992). The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money $ Power.
47. Vatter, Harold G.; Walker, John F.; Alperovitz, Gar (2005). "The onset and
persistence of secular stagnation in the U.S. economy: 1910-1990, Journal of
Economic Issues".
48. Beaudreau (1996) cites capacity utilization at 84-86%, which would be a decent
number today; however, there were some industrial leaders who complained of
overcapacity, as did Senator Smoot.
49. Jerome, Harry (1934). Mechanization in Industry, National Bureau of Economic
Research<For the several industries studied industry expansion offset most of the
productivity gains that would otherwise have resulted in many more job losses than
actually occurred. To prevent rising unemployment the laid off workers would have
to have changed industries, but it was noted that even if workers were successful at
such a change the time typically took 18 months or more. The employment
statistics for the 1930 census reflect conditions after the start of the depression so
the actual employment situation prior to the depression is unknown.>
50. "Hours of Work in U.S. History". 2010.
51. Whaples, Robert (June 1991). "The Shortening of the American Work Week: An
Economic and Historical Analysis of Its Context, Causes, and Consequences, The
Journal of Economic History, Vol. 51, No. 2; pp. 454–57".
52. Field, Alexander (2004). "Technological Change and Economic Growth the
Interwar Years and the 1990s" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2012-03-
10.
53. Hubbert, M. King (1940). "Man Hours and Distribution , Derived from Man Hours:
A Declining Quantity, Technocracy, Series A, No. 8, August 1936".
54. Stiglitz, Joseph (2011). "The Book of Jobs". Vanity Fair. Retrieved 2011-12-23
55. Ayres, R. U.; Ayres, L. W.; Warr, B. (2002). "Exergy, Power and Work in the U. S.
Economy 1900–1998, Insead's Center For the Management of Environmental
Resources, 2002/52/EPS/CMER" (PDF)<Fig. 4 in Appendix>From one-sixth to
one-quarter of all land had been used to grow animal feed.
56. Atack, Jeremy; Passell, Peter (1994). A New Economic View of American History.
New York: W.W. Norton and Co. pp. 574–6. ISBN 0-393-96315-2.
57. General Motors and the Decline of Streetcars
(http://debunkportland.com/printables/TQOrigin.pdf)
58. Field, Alexander J. (2011). A Great Leap Forward: 1930s Depression and U.S.
Economic Growth. New Haven, London: Yale University Press. ISBN 978-0-300-
15109-1.
59. David M. Kennedy, 'Freedom From Fear, The American People in Depression and
War 1929–1945, Oxford University Press, 1999, ISBN 0-19-503834-7, pp. 122,
123
60. Dorfman,1959
61. Allgoewer, Elisabeth (May 2002). "Underconsumption theories and Keynesian
economics. Interpretations of the Great Depression" (PDF). Discussion paper no.
2002-14.
62. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p. 108
63. The Road to Plenty (1928)
64. Chapter 15: The Great Depression. (1999). Growth of the International Economy
1820–2000 (pp. 226–34). Taylor & Francis Ltd / Books.
65. Eichengreen 1992, p. xi
66. Bernanke 2002, p. 80
67. Gold Standards and the Real Bills Doctrine in U.S. Monetary Policy, RICHARD H.
TIMBERLAKE
http://www.econjournalwatch.org/pdf/TimberlakeIntellectualTyrannyAugust2005.pdf
68. Parker, p. 49.
69. Chernow, R. (2009, Oct 23). Everyman's financial meltdown. New York Times
(1923-Current File). Retrieved from
http://search.proquest.com/docview/1030683641
70. Temin, P. (2010). The Great Recession & the Great Depression. Daedalus, 139(4),
115–24.
71. White, 1990.
72. Protectionism and the Great Depression
(http://krugman.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/11/30/protectionism-and-the-greatdepression/),
Paul Krugman, New York Times, November 30, 2009
73. The protectionist temptation: Lessons from the Great Depression for today
(http://voxeu.org/index.php?q=node/3280), VOX, Barry Eichengreen, Douglas
Irwin, 17 March 2009
74. EICHENGREEN, B., & IRWIN, D. A. (2010). The Slide to Protectionism in the
Great Depression: Who Succumbed and Why?. Journal Of Economic History, 70
(4), 871–97.
75. Hansen, Alvin (1939). "Economic Progress and Declining Population Growth".
ISBN 978-1162557823<Originally printed in a journal. Reprinted 2004, 2010>
76. Barber, Clarence L. "On the Origins of the Great Depression", Southern Economic
Journal, January, 1978, 44(3), pp. 432–56.
77. Barber, Clarence L. "On the Origins of the Great Depression", Southern Economic
Journal, January 1978, 44(3), pp. 432–56. See also Bolch, B. W. and J. D. Pilgrim,
"A Reappraisal of Some Factors Associated with Fluctuations in the United States
in the Interwar Period." Southern Economic Journal, January 1973, pp. 327–44.
78. Atack, Jeremy; Passell, Peter (1994). A New Economic View of American History.
New York: W.W. Norton and Co. p. 599. ISBN 0-393-96315-2.
79. Longman, Philip (2004). The Empty Cradle: How Falling Birthrates Threaten
World Prosperity And What to Do About It. p. 87. ISBN 0-465-05050-6.
80. Melvin I. Urofsky, The American Presidents: Critical Essays, ISBN 0-8153-
2184-8, p. 391
81. J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real Business Cycle
Theory and the Great Depression (http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?
new_window=1), National Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No.
3546, p. 1
82. White, Lawrence (2008). "Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?".
Journal of Money, Credit, and Banking. 40 (40): 751–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-
4616.2008.00134.x.
83. White, Lawrence (2008). "Did Hayek and Robbins Deepen the Great Depression?".
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking. 40 (40): 751–768. doi:10.1111/j.1538-
4616.2008.00134.x.
84. J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real Business Cycle
Theory and the Great Depression (http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?
new_window=1), National Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No.
3546, p. 5
85. Randall E. Parker, Reflections on the Great Depression, Elgar publishing, 2003,
ISBN 978-1843763352, p. 9
86. Hoover, Herbert. The Memoirs of Herbert Hoover, p. 31
(http://www.ecommcode.com/hoover/ebooks/pdf/FULL/B1V3_Full.pdf) Archived
(https://web.archive.org/web/20081217233238/http://www.ecommcode.com/hoover/ebooks/pdf/FULL/B1V3_December 17, 2008, at the Wayback Machine.
87. Bradford DeLong, What Was Herbert Hoover's Fiscal Policy?
(http://delong.typepad.com/sdj/2011/07/what-was-herbert-hoovers-fiscalpolicy.
html)
88. J. Bradford De Long, "Liquidation" Cycles: Old Fashioned Real Business Cycle
Theory and the Great Depression (http://www.nber.org/papers/w3546.pdf?
new_window=1), National Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No.
3546, p. 33
89. Lawrence White, The Clash of Economic Ideas: The Great Policy Debates and
Experiments of the 20th Century (Cambridge University Press), p. 94.
90. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 4. Auflage, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, pp. 110–11
91. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 4. Auflage, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p. 120
92. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 4. Auflage, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p. 113
93. Peter Clemens, Prosperity, Depression and the New Deal: The USA 1890–1954,
Hodder Education, 4. Auflage, 2008, ISBN 978-0-340-965887, p. 114
94. Houck, D. W. (2000). RHETORIC AS CURRENCY: HERBERT HOOVER AND
THE 1929 STOCK MARKET CRASH. Rhetoric & Public Affairs, 3(2), 155–81.
95. Barber, C. L. (1978). "On the Origins of the Great Depression". Southern Economic
Journal, 44(3), 432.
96. Lewis, W. A. Economic Survey, 1919–1929. London: Allen and Unwin, 1949.
97. Roy G. Blakey, Gladys C. Blakey, The Federal Income Tax, 2006, p. 301
98. Roy G. Blakey, Gladys C. Blakey, The Federal Income Tax, 2006, pp. 302–03
99. Roy G. Blakey, Gladys C. Blakey, The Federal Income Tax, 2006, p. 304
100. Roy G. Blakey, Gladys C. Blakey, The Federal Income Tax, 2006, p. 305
101. The Concise Encyclopedia of Economics: The Great Depression
http://www.econlib.org/library/Enc/GreatDepression.html
102. http://www.cato.org/pubs/bp/bp122.pdf
103. Robert Whaples, "Where Is There Consensus Among American Economic
Historians? The Results of a Survey on Forty Propositions", Journal of Economic
History, Vol. 55, No. 1 (Mar., 1995), pp. 139–54 in JSTOR
(http://www.jstor.org/stable/2123771)
104. Cole, Harold L., and Lee E. Ohanian. "The Great Depression from a Neoclassical
Perspective." N.p., n.d. Web.
<https://www.minneapolisfed.org/research/qr/qr2311.pdf>.
105. Chari, V. V., Patrick J. Kehoe, and Ellen R. McGrattan. "Accounting for the Great
Depression." N.p., n.d. Web.
<https://www.minneapolisfed.org/research/qr/qr2721.pdf>.
106. De Vroey, Michel R. "Real Business Cycle Theory and the Great Depression: The
Abandonment of the Abstentionist Viewpoint." N.p., n.d. Web.
<http://www.econ.umn.edu/~tkehoe/classes/DevroeyPensieroso.pdf>.
References
◾ Secular Stagnation and Great Depression, R. L. Norman, Jr. (http://www.secularstagnation.com)
◾ Dorfman, Joseph (1959). "Economic Mind in American Civilization"vol 4 and 5 cover the ideas of all American economists of 1918-1933.
◾ Friedman, Milton and Anna Jacobson Schwartz, A Monetary History of the United States, 1867–1960 (1963)
◾ Keen, Steve 2001. Debunking Economics Pluto Press Australia Limited Sydney, Australia
◾ Meltzer, Allan H. 2003 A History of the Federal Reserve Volume I: 1913–1951 Chicago University Press, Chicago, IL
◾ Rothbard, Murray N. 1963 America's Great Depression D. Van Nostrand Company, Princeton, NJ
◾ Rothbard, Murray N. A History of Money and Banking in the United States: The Colonial Era to World War II (2002)
◾ Samuelson, Paul (1948). "Economics".
◾ White, Eugene N. "The Stock Market Boom and Crash of 1929 Revisited" Journal of Economic Perspectives, Vol. 4, No. 2 (Spring, 1990), pp. 67–83;
examines different theories
Further reading
World
◾ Ambrosius, G. and W. Hibbard. A Social and Economic History of Twentieth-Century Europe (1989)
◾ Barber, Clarence Lyle (University of Manitoba) "On the Origins of the Great Depression" (1978)
◾ Bordo, Michael, and Anna J. Schwartz, eds. A Retrospective on the Classical Gold Standard, 1821–1931 (1984) (National Bureau of Economic Research
Conference Report)
◾ Bordo, Michael et al. eds. The Gold Standard and Related Regimes: Collected Essays (1999)
◾ Brown, Ian. The Economies of Africa and Asia in the Inter-War Depression (1989)
◾ Davis, Joseph S. The World Between the Wars, 1919–39: An Economist's View (1974)
◾ Eichengreen, Barry. Golden Fetters: The Gold Standard and the Great Depression, 1919–1939 (NBER Series on Long-Term Factors in Economic
Development), 1996, ISBN 0-19-510113-8
◾ Eichengreen, Barry, and Marc Flandreau, eds. The Gold Standard in Theory and History (1997)
◾ Feinstein, Charles H. The European Economy Between the Wars (1997)
◾ Garraty, John A. The Great Depression: An Inquiry into the Causes, Course, and Consequences of the Worldwide Depression of the Nineteen-Thirties, as Seen
by Contemporaries and in Light of History (1986)
◾ Garraty, John A. Unemployment in History (1978)
◾ Garside, William R. Capitalism in Crisis: International Responses to the Great Depression (1993)
◾ Haberler, Gottfried. The World Economy, Money, and the Great Depression 1919–1939 (1976)
◾ Hall, Thomas E. and J. David Ferguson. The Great Depression: An International Disaster of Perverse Economic Policies (1998)
◾ Kaiser, David E. Economic Diplomacy and the Origins of the Second World War: Germany, Britain, France and Eastern Europe, 1930–1939 (1980)
◾ Kindleberger, Charles P. The World in Depression, 1929–1939 (1983);
◾ Tipton, F. and R. Aldrich. An Economic and Social History of Europe, 1890–1939 (1987)
United States
◾ Ben S. Bernanke. Essays on the Great Depression (2000)
◾ Bernstein, Michael A. The Great Depression: Delayed Recovery and Economic Change in America, 1929–1939 (1989) focus on low-growth and high-growth
industries
◾ Bordo, Michael D., Claudia Goldin, and Eugene N. White, eds. The Defining Moment: The Great Depression and the American Economy in the Twentieth
Century (1998). Advanced economic history.
◾ Chandler, Lester. America's Greatest Depression (1970). economic history overview.
◾ De Long, Bradford. Liquidation Cycles and the Great Depression (1991)
◾ Horwitz, Steven (2008). "Hoover's Economic Policies". In Henderson, David R. Concise Encyclopedia of Economics (2nd ed.). Indianapolis: Library of
Economics and Liberty. ISBN 978-0865976658. OCLC 237794267.
◾ Jensen, Richard J. "The Causes and Cures of Unemployment in the Great Depression," Journal of Interdisciplinary History 19 (1989) 553–83. online at JSTOR
in most academic libraries
◾ McElvaine, Robert S. The Great Depression (2nd ed 1993) social history
◾ Mitchell, Broadus. Depression Decade: From New Era through New Deal, 1929–1941 (1964), standard economic history overview.
◾ Parker, Randall E. Reflections on the Great Depression (2002) interviews with 11 leading economists
◾ Salsman, Richard M. “The Cause and Consequences of the Great Depression” in The Intellectual Activist, ISSN 0730-2355. Mr. Salsman argues that the Great
Depression was fundamentally caused by statist government policy.
◾ Singleton, Jeff. The American Dole: Unemployment Relief and the Welfare State in the Great Depression (2000) (http://www.questia.com/PM.qst?
a=o&d=24419587)
◾ Warren, Harris Gaylord. Herbert Hoover and the Great Depression (1959).
Role of the United States Federal Reserve
◾ Chandler, Lester V. American Monetary Policy, 1928–41. (1971).
◾ Epstein, Gerald and Thomas Ferguson. "Monetary Policy, Loan Liquidation and Industrial Conflict: Federal Reserve System Open Market Operations in
1932." Journal of Economic History 44 (December 1984): 957–84. in JSTOR
◾ Kubik, Paul J., "Federal Reserve Policy during the Great Depression: The Impact of Interwar Attitudes regarding Consumption and Consumer Credit." Journal
of Economic Issues. Vo: 30. Issue: 3. Publication Year: 1996. pp 829+.
◾ Mayhew, Anne. "Ideology and the Great Depression: Monetary History Rewritten." Journal of Economic Issues 17 (June 1983): 353–60.
◾ Meltzer, Allan H. A History of the Federal Reserve, Volume 1: 1913–1951 (2004) the standard scholarly history
◾ Steindl, Frank G. Monetary Interpretations of the Great Depression. (1995).
◾ Temin, Peter. Did Monetary Forces Cause the Great Depression? (1976).
◾ Wicker, Elmus R. "A Reconsideration of Federal Reserve Policy during the 1920–1921 Depression," Journal of Economic History (1966) 26: 223–38, in
JSTOR
◾ Wicker, Elmus. Federal Reserve Monetary Policy, 1917–33. (1966).
◾ Wells, Donald R. The Federal Reserve System: A History (2004)
◾ Wueschner, Silvano A. Charting Twentieth-Century Monetary Policy: Herbert Hoover and Benjamin Strong, 1917–1927 Greenwood Press. (1999)
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Causes_of_the_Great_Depression&oldid=756605201"
Categories: 1920s Great Depression Causes of events
◾ This page was last modified on 25 December 2016, at 13:22.
◾ Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use
and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
1910年-1960年のアメリカ合衆国の年毎の実質GDP。世界恐慌の期間
(1929年-1939年)をピンク色で示した。
世界恐慌の原因
出典: フリー百科事典『ウィキペディア（Wikipedia）』
この記事は検証可能な参考文献や出典が全く示されていないか、不十分です。
出典を追加して記事の信頼性向上にご協力ください。（2009年11月）
この項目「世界恐慌の原因」は途中まで翻訳されたものです。（原文：英語版 "Causes of the Great
Depression" 00:56, 24 August 2012 （UTC） (https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=Causes_of_the_Great_Depression&oldid=508859943)）
翻訳作業に協力して下さる方を求めています。ノートページや履歴 (https://ja.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=%E4%B8%96%E7%95%8C%E6%81%90%E6%85%8C%E3%81%AE%E5%8E%9F%E5%9B%
A0&action=history)、翻訳のガイドラインも参照してください。要約欄への翻訳情報の記入をお忘れなく。
（2016年2月）
世界恐慌の原因(せかいきょうこうのげんいん)は経済学者達の活発な議論の主題となっており、これは広く見れば経済危機に関する議
論の一環でもある。だが一般的には、世界恐慌は1929年の株価大暴落により引き起こされたと信じられている。世界恐慌時に起きた
個々の経済的事件も徹底的に研究されてきた: そういった事件には、資産や商品価格のデフレ、需要と信用の急降下、貿易網の崩壊、
そして究極的に起こる失業とそれに続く貧困などがある。しかしながら、恐慌を引き起こし、あるいは恐慌からの回復をもたらした政府の
経済政策と個々の事件との因果関係は歴史家の間で意見の一致をみていない。
近年では、理論は二つの主流派といくつかの異説に大きく分けられる。
まず、ケインズ経済学や制度派経済学による需要主導モデルの理論では、不景気は消費不足と(それによってバブル経済が引き起こさ
れたところの)過剰投資によって引き起こされたと主張される。需要主導モデルの理論においては、信用が大きく損なわれたことで消費・
投資活動の急激な減少が起きたということで意見が一致している。一たび混乱・デフレが起こると、多くの人々は市場から距離を置くこと
でこれ以上の損失を回避しようとするというのである。このために物価は下がり続け、等量のお金でも多くの物品を買えるようになる。そ
の結果、お金を貯蓄に回すことが有利となり、更なる需要減少に見舞われることになる。
次に、マネタリストらによれば、世界恐慌は通常の不景気として始まったのだが、その時の通貨当局(特に連邦準備制度)による重大な政
策のミスが金融引締めという結果を招き、これによって経済状況が極端に悪化したために通常の不景気から世界恐慌に至ったという。こ
の説明は、負債デフレによって借り手は実質的により多くの債務を負うことになると指摘する人々と関連がある。
このほかにいくつかの異説があり、それらを支持してケインジアンやマネタリストの説明を否定する者がいる。新しい古典派マクロ経済学
者の中には、恐慌初期に課された様々な労働市場政策が長く深刻な世界恐慌を齎したと主張する者もいる。オーストリア経済学派は、
中央銀行の決定がどのようにして誤投資を招くかとマネーサプライのマクロ経済的影響に着目する。
目次
◾ 1 一般理論による説明
◾ 1.1 主流説
◾ 1.1.1 ケインジアン
◾ 1.1.2 マネタリスト
◾ 1.2 異説
◾ 1.2.1 オーストリア学派
◾ 1.2.2 マルクス主義
◾ 2 原因に関する個々の理論
◾ 2.1 負債デフレ
◾ 2.2 負債以外の原因によるデフレ
◾ 2.3 生産に対する衝撃
◾ 2.4 富と収入の不均衡
◾ 2.5 金本位制
◾ 2.6 金融機関の構造
◾ 2.7 保護貿易主義
◾ 2.8 国際的な債権構造
◾ 2.9 集団動力学
◾ 3 経済政策の役割
◾ 3.1 放任清算主義
◾ 3.2 オーストリア学派の政府膨張論
◾ 3.2.1 消費の増大
◾ 3.2.2 新たな公的規制
◾ 3.2.3 税率の引き上げ
◾ 4 関連項目
◾ 5 脚注
◾ 6 参考文献
◾ 7 関連文献
◾ 7.1 世界
◾ 7.2 アメリカ合衆国
◾ 7.3 連邦準備制度の役割
一般理論による説明
主流説
ケインジアン
多くの経済学者がその活動を主張するところの自己修正機構が不景気に働かないことがある理由は複数あると1936年に経済学者ジョ
ン・メイナード・ケインズが主張した。著書『雇用・利子および貨幣の一般理論』においてケインズは、世界恐慌を説明するための概念を導
入した。不景気時における不干渉主義政策に対する一つの主張として、もし貯蓄によって消費が落ち込むならば貯蓄は利率の低下をも
たらすというものがある。古典派経済学者によれば、低い利率は投資の拡大をもたらし需要が持続的になるという。
しかし、利率が低下しても投資が必ずしも活発にならないことの良い説明があるとケインズは主張する。利益を期待しての投資は事業に
よってもたらされる。それゆえ、消費の落ち込みが長期にわたるならば、事業の分析の傾向として将来の売り上げの期待は低いものとな
る。そのため、低利率によって資本が安価になっても将来の生産量を増大させるような投資は最も関心が向かないものとなるのである。
この場合、消費の減少によって経済は一斉安に陥る[1]。ケインズによれば、この自己強化的活動こそが恐慌時に非常に活発になり、倒
産が頻発して(将来に対する楽観的な期待が必要である)投資がほとんど起こらなくなったのだという。この説は経済学者によってしばし
ばセイの法則に反するものとして特徴づけられ、特にオーストリア経済学派に人気がある。
資本投資の減少が恐慌の原因であるという説は長期停滞論の中心的な主題である。
マネタリスト
1963年の著書『米国金融史 1、世界恐慌はマネーサプライの減少によってもたらされた。フリードマンとシュウォーツは次のように
書いている: 「1929年8月の周期的な山から1933年の周期的な谷までの間に、通貨流通量は3分の1強にまで落ち込んだ。」その結果が
フリードマンいう所の「大収縮」―金融引き締めの窒息効果による収入・物価・雇用の減退―である。この頃、連邦準備制度が供給する
より以上に人々はお金を欲していたのだとフリードマンとシュウォーツは主張する。その結果人々は消費を減らすことでお金を貯蓄した。
また、物価は即座に下落するほど融通が利かないために、結果として、雇用と生産の収縮が起きた。連邦の過ちは何が起こったのか分
からなかったことや正しい対応を取らなかったことにある[2]。
恐慌以降、その主要な説明はマネーサプライの重要性を無視する傾向があった。しかし、マネタリストによれば、恐慌は「事実上、金融の
効果の重要性の悲劇的な証明である[3]。」彼らによれば、連邦準備制度の世界恐慌に対処する上での失敗は、金融政策が無力である
ことの表れではなく、連邦準備制度が間違った政策を実行したことの表れであるという。彼らは連邦が恐慌を「起こした」と主張しているの
ではなく、不景気が恐慌になるのを防ぐ政策を使い損ねたと言っているだけである。
南北戦争後から20世紀初期にかけて、アメリカ合衆国とヨーロッパは政府が規定する形の金本位制を採用していた。この時期のアメリカ
経済は周期的な好不況の波を受けていた。不景気はしばしば銀行不況によって引き起こされていたとみられ、特に重要なものは1873
年、1893年、1901年、1907年、1920年に起こっている[4]。連邦準備制度が1913年に成立する以前のアメリカ合衆国では銀行システムが
紙幣の兌換性を停止することでこうした(1907年恐慌のような)危機に対処していた。1893年に開始して以降、金融機関やビジネスマンに
よる成長努力がこうした危機に介在し、取り付けに喘ぐ銀行に流動性をもたらしていた。1907年の銀行恐慌の際、J・P・モルガンの招集し
たその場限りの連合がこの方法でうまく介入し、それによって恐慌が遮断されており、このため通常銀行恐慌に続いて起こる大恐慌がこ
の時には起こらなかったのだとされる。政府がこうした解決策をとることが要求されたために連邦準備制度が設立されることとなった[5]。
しかし1928年-1932年には、連邦準備制度は取り付けにあえぐ銀行に流動性をもたらすことはなかった。実際にはその政策はマネーサプ
ライの急激な収縮を許すことで銀行危機に応えていた。狂騒の20年代には、中央銀行は第一の目標を「物価の安定」に定めていたが、
これはニューヨーク連邦準備銀行の総裁ベンジャミン・ストロングが、物価の安定を金融目標とした非常に著名な経済学者アーヴィング・
フィッシャーの弟子だからということもある。そういった事情から中央銀行は社会の物価が安定する程度にドルの流通量を保った。1928年
にストロングが死に、彼の死とともにこの政策が終了し、全ての通貨・証券は背後に実際的な物品を裏付けとして持っているべきだという
真正手形学説が取って代わった。この政策の為にアメリカ合衆国のマネーサプライは1929年から1933年の間に3分の1以上に減少するこ
とになった[6]。
この通貨減少によって銀行への取り付けが起こっても連邦は真正手形学説を保持し、1907年恐慌を遮ったときの方法で銀行に貸し付け
ることを拒否し、代わりに各銀行を破滅的な取り付けにあえぐままにさせ完全に没落させた。この政策によって連鎖的な銀行の倒産が起
こり、当時存在した銀行の3分の1が消滅した。[7]。ベン・バーナンキによれば、続いて起こった信用危機によってさらに倒産の波が起こっ
た[8]。1907年と同じ政策が1930年終わりの銀行恐慌の際にも採用されていればこれによって物価下落時の資産の流動化の強制の悪し
き連鎖が防げただろうとフリードマンは述べた。そうしていれば、1893年や1907年に兌換性停止によって当時の流動性危機がすぐに止ん
だのと同じく、1931年、1932年、1933年の銀行恐慌は起こらなかったであろうというのである[9]。
マネタリストによる説明はサミュエルソンの著書『経済学』において否定されており、「連邦準備制度の金融政策を景気循環を制御する万
能薬とみなす経済学者は今日ではほとんどいない。純粋に金融的なファクターは原因であるのと同じだけ徴候であると考えられる、悪化
させる効果を伴っており完全に無視すべきではない徴候ではあるが[10]。」と述べられている。ケインズ経済学者のポール・クルーグマン
によれば、フリードマンとシュウォーツの著作は1980年代までに主流派経済学者の間で支配的になったが、1990年代日本の「失われた
10年」の下に再考されるべきであるという[11]。経済危機における金融危機の役割は世界金融危機 (2007年-)に関する活発な議論で扱わ
れている。世界金融危機 (2007年-)の原因を参照。
異説
世界恐慌初期の取り付け騒ぎ時にニュー
ヨークのアメリカ連合銀行に集まった群衆
オーストリア学派
世界恐慌は1920年代の連邦準備制度の金融政策の避けられない結果だったとオーストリア経済学派は主張している。彼らの意見では、
この中央銀行の政策は持続不可能な信用によるにわか景気をもたらす「安直な信用政策」であった。オーストリア学派の考えでは、この
時期のマネーサプライのインフレが資産価値(有価証券)と資本財の両者において持続不可能なバブルを引き起こしたという。連邦準備
制度が1928年に遅れて金融引き締めを行うまでには、深刻な経済後退を避けるには手遅れになっていた[12]。1929年の大暴落の後の政
府の介入によって市場の調節が遅れ、完全な回復がより困難になる道が開かれたとオーストリア学派は主張している[13]。
世界恐慌の主原因に関するオーストリア学派の説明を受け入れることはマネタリストの説明の否定を受け入れることと両立する。『アメリ
カの世界恐慌』(1963年)の著者でオーストリア経済学派のマリー・ロスバードはマネタリストの説明を否定している。中央銀行はマネーサ
プライを十分に増やすのに失敗したのだというミルトン・フリードマンの主張をロスバードは批判し、代わりに、1932年に連邦準備制度が
11億ドルの米国債を買い入れて所有国債量を18億ドルとした際、連邦準備制度はインフレ政策を追求していたのだと主張する。中央銀
行の政策に反してデフレが深刻化したのは「マネーサプライ総量が30億ドルに達したのに（民間）銀行の準備金の総量は2億1200万ドル
に留まった」ためであり、これはアメリカの大衆が銀行組織に不信感を抱いてさらに多くの預金を銀行から引き出し退蔵したという、中央
銀行の制御を大きく超える理由によるものだと彼は主張する。ロスバードの主張によると、銀行に対する取付のおそれの為に地銀は準
備金の貸し出しにさらに消極的になり、このために連邦準備制度がインフレを起こせなかったという[14]ことになる。
ロスバードがマネタリストの説明を批判したことに対して、もう一人の卓越したオーストリア経済学派のメンバーフリードリヒ・ハイエクは反
対した。ハイエクは、自身が1930年に中央銀行のデフレ政策に反対しなかったことが誤っていたと1975年に認め、曖昧な態度をとったこ
とに関して釈明した: 「当時私は、幾分短い期間におけるデフレの過程は、(経済が機能することと両立不可能だと私が考えていたところ
の)賃金の硬直性を破壊するものだと考えていた[15]。」 1978年には彼は「一たび急落が起こると連邦準備制度は愚かなデフレ政策を追
求するようになるということに関してミルトン・フリードマンに賛成する」と述べてマネタリストの見解に賛成し、デフレに反対してインフレに
賛成することを明らかにした[16]。この流れを汲んで、マネーサプライの強い引き締めを許すような金融政策とハイエクの景気循環理論は
矛盾すると経済学者のローレンス・H・ホワイトが主張している。
マルクス主義
「資本主義#マルクス学派」も参照
マルクス主義者は概して、資本主義モデルに固有の不安定性が世界恐慌を引き起こしたのだと主張する[17]。
原因に関する個々の理論
負債デフレ
詳細は「負債デフレ」を参照
アメリカ合衆国のGDPに対する負債の割合は世界恐慌の時までには300%に達した。この
割合は20世紀終わりまで越えられることはなかった[18]。
ジェローム(1934年)は戦間期の産業の大発展を可能にした財政状態に関する原典不明の
引用をしている:
恐らく未だかつてこの国でこれほどの量の国債がこれほど低い利率、これほど長い
期間にわたって出されたことはなかった[19]。
さらに、スタンダード・スタティスティックス社による60度の国債の指数が1923年の4.98%から
4.47%になった際には新たな資本発行の量が1922年から1929年の年平均から7.7%増加し
たとジェロームは述べている。
1920年代には特にフロリダ州で不動産・住宅のバブルが起こったが1925年に破裂した。
1920年代の住宅建設は人口増加の勢いを25%上回っていたとアルヴィン・ハンセンが述べている[20]。参照:1920年代フロリダの土地バブ
ル
アーヴィング・フィッシャーは、世界恐慌を引き起こした主原因は負債過多とデフレだと主張した。フィッシャーは信用の低下を負債過多と
結びつけ、負債過多が投機熱と資産バブルを刺激したのだとしている[21]。負債・デフレという状況下で相互作用し、バブルが起こり崩壊
する仕組みを作りだした九つの要因を彼は概説している。それら先行する出来事の連鎖は以下:
1. 負債の流動化と占有権の売却
2. 銀行ローンとしてのマネーサプライの緊縮が清算される
3. 資産価格水準の低下
4. 全体としての商業価値の深刻な低下、突然の破産
5. 利益の低下
6. 商業・雇用における生産量の低下
7. 信用の減少とペシミズム
8. お金の死蔵
9. 名目金利の低下と利率にあわせたデフレの拡大[21]
ウォール街大暴落後にウォール街に群がる
群衆
世界恐慌に先行する1929年の急落の際、証拠金規定額は10%にすぎなかった[22]。つまり、
株式仲売業者は投資社が1ドル預けるごとに9ドル貸し付けた。市場が急落した際、業者は
こうしたローンを回収しようとしたが、それは返ってくることはなかった。債務者が債務不履
行を起こし、預金者が一斉に預金を回収しようとすることで取り付け騒ぎが起こり、銀行が
倒産し始めた。こうした騒ぎを食い止めるための政府の保証や連邦準備制度による銀行の
規制は効果がないか使われなかった。銀行の破産により数十億ドルの資産が失われた
[23]。
物価と収入が20-50%減少しているのに負債は同価格であるため、未払いの負債が重くのし
かかった。1929年の混乱の後、1930年最初の10か月間に744のアメリカ合衆国の銀行が破
産した(1930年代には全部で9000ほどの銀行が破産した)。1933年4月までに、3月の銀行の
法定休日の後に無資格の預金や破産した銀行の70億ドルの預金が凍結された[24]。
絶望した銀行家が、借り手が返すお金・時間を持てないほどの勢いで貸付金の回収を行う
とともに銀行の倒産が連鎖的に起こった。予測利益が低いものであったため、資本投資や
建築が停滞した。不良債権や将来の見通しの悪化に直面し、生きのこった銀行は貸付によ
り消極的になった[23]。銀行は基本準備金を増加させるとともに貸し付けを減らし、これに
よってデフレ圧を強めた。悪しき循環が進み、下降スパイラルが増加した。
負債の流動化は自身が引き起こした物価の下降を食い止められなかった。自身の資産を
流動させようという大衆の衝動的行動の大局的効果によってデフレが加速し、資産量減衰
の価値に影響した。自身の負債を減らそうとする個々人の努力こそが事実上それを増大さ
せていた。逆説的だが、負債者が払えば払うほど、彼らは負債を多く抱えることになった
[21]。この自己悪化の過程が1930年の不景気を1933年の世界恐慌へ変えた。
連邦準備銀行の総裁ベン・バーナンキのようなマクロ経済学者がフィッシャーに由来する世界恐慌の負債デフレ説を復活させた[25][26]。
負債以外の原因によるデフレ
負債デフレに加えて、19世紀最後の四半世紀の大デフレ以降に起こった生産性デフレの構成要素が存在した[27] 。第一次世界大戦に
よって起こったインフレを強める補正もおそらく継続していた。
48州で見つかった中でも最大の油田、東テキサス油田が操業して、1930年代には原油価格が歴代最安値に達していた。原油市場にお
ける過剰供給のため価格は10セント/バレルにまで低下していた[28]。参照: 世界恐慌の原因#生産に対する衝撃
生産に対する衝撃
20世紀最初の30年には資本投資と経済生産高が電化・大量生産・輸送機関の電動化・農業の機械化とともに湧き起こり、生産性の急速
な増加により、多くの工場の閉鎖や物価の下落とともに余剰生産能力の増大が見られた[19][29]。結果として、世界恐慌の前の10年には
一週の労働時間が僅かに減少していた[30][31][32]。世界恐慌によってさらに多くの工場が閉鎖した[19]。
「我々の述べる[生産性、生産高、雇用の]傾向が1929年以前に完全に明白だったことをあまり極端に強調することはできな
い。この傾向はこの恐慌の結果では決してないし、世界大戦の結果でもない。そうではなくて、この恐慌はこういった長期に
わたる傾向の結果起こった崩壊なのである[33]。」マリオン・キング・ヒューバート
全米経済研究所の援助により出版されたジェローム『産業の機械化』(1934年)には、機械化が生産高を増大させる傾向を持つのか労働
力を解雇する傾向を持つのかは生産物の要求の弾力性に依存すると述べられている[19]。また、生産コスト現象は必ずしも消費者に還元
されない。さらに、第一次世界大戦以降ウマやラバが非動物の動力に取って代わられるとともに家畜飼料の需要が減少して農業は不利
な影響を被ったと述べられている。「技術的失業」という術語は世界恐慌時の労働環境を表すのに使われるとも『産業の機械化』に記さ
れている[19]。
「戦間期アメリカ合衆国の特徴である失業の増大の幾分かは非弾力的需要に応じた商品を生産する産業の機械化が原因
であるといえるだろう[19]。」フレデリック・C・ウェルズ、1934年
1923年の景気循環の頂点からしばらく後、過剰な労働者が雇用創生と比較して生産性発展により取って代わられており、1925年以降の
失業の拡大を引き起こした[34][29]。
アメリカ合衆国の主要産業の生産性の劇的な拡大とその生産品、賃金、労働時間に対する影響が、ブルッキングス研究所の支援により
出版された書籍の中で議論されている。[27]
肥料、機械化、品種改良を通じた生産性ショックこそが農産物価格の低下を引き起こしたのだとジョセフ・スティグリッツとブルース・グリー
ンウォルドが主張した。農家は過剰な労働力供給を加えた土地に押し込められていたのだという[35]。
農産物価格は第一次世界大戦後に低下し始めた。結果的に多くの農家が商売として農業を成り立たせられなくなり、数百の小規模な地
銀の倒産を招いた。トラクター、肥料、雑種トウモロコシによる農業生産性は問題の一部にすぎなかった; 他の問題とはウマ・ラバから内
燃力輸送機関への転換であった。ウマ・ラバの数は第一次世界大戦以降減少し始め、家畜飼料を生産していた大量の土地が余るように
なった[19][36]。
自動車・バスが電車の発展を止めるようになった[37]。
富と収入の不均衡
ウォディル・キャッチングズ、ウィリアム・トゥルファント・フォスター、レックスフォード・タグウェル、アドルフ・バール(、そして後にはジョン・ケ
ネス・ガルブレイス)といった経済学者はフランクリン・ルーズベルトに幾分かの影響を与えた理論を普及させた[38]。その理論とは、経済
が、消費者に十分な収入がないにもかかわらず、消費者が購入できる以上の商品を生産してしまった、というものである[39][40][41]。この説
によれば、1920年代の賃金の上昇率は生産性の上昇率を下回っていたのである。生産性が増大したことによる恩恵のほとんどは利潤と
なってしまい、それは株式市場バブルを引き起こしたものの、消費者の購買行動には繋がらなかった。このように、1920年代を通じて富
が不平等に分配されたことが世界恐慌を引き起こしたという。
この説によれば、世界恐慌の根本的な原因は、独立企業による賃金・収入の水準が十分な購買力を生み出すに達していないにもかか
わらず行われた世界的な過剰投資である。また、政府は富裕層に対する課税を重くすることで収入をより平等にすべきだった、と主張さ
れる。政府は、歳入の増加を利用して公共事業を行って雇用を増加させることで経済を「蹴って始動」させられた、という。だがアメリカ合
衆国では1932年まで、これとは正反対の経済政策が行われていたのである。大統領退任前年のハーバート・フーヴァーに紹介されフラ
ンクリン・ルーズベルトによって採用されることになった<1932年歳入法>や公共事業計画が、購買力をある程度再分配することに成功し
たのである[42][43]。
金本位制
世界恐慌の金本位制理論によれば、恐慌の原因は主に、第一次世界大戦後の西側諸国が戦前の値段に基づく金本位制に復帰しようと
したことにである。この説によれば、これによって金融政策がデフレ志向になり10年間にわたってヨーロッパの多くの国の経済の健全性を
害し続けたという。
この戦後政策に先駆けてインフレ政策がとられていた第一次世界大戦中には、多くのヨーロッパ諸国は戦費の激増により金本位制を廃
止せざるを得なかった。この結果、新しく作られた金の供給がインフレを中和させる生産性への投資ではなく戦費に使われたため、インフ

経済成長を導かない目的のために造られた新貨幣の総量を減少させるというものである。
戦後アメリカやヨーロッパ諸国が金本位制に復帰した際、多くの国は戦前の水準の金-通貨レートをとった。例えばイギリスでは1925年に
金本位法が国会を通過し、これによって金本位制に復帰した際、当時外国為替市場で戦前よりもずっと低い価格でポンドが取引されて
いたにもかかわらずスターリング・ポンドを戦前と等価に設定するという致命的な決定を行った。当時ジョン・メイナード・ケインズらは、政
府はそうすることによって釣り合いが取れていないような賃金再設定を強いているのだと主張してこの決定を批判した。ウィンストン・
チャーチルが金本位制に復帰させたことに対するケインズの批判はこれを暗にヴェルサイユ条約の結果と比較するものであった。
戦前と等価にしようという傾向が生まれた理由として一つは、デフレは危険ではないのに対してインフレは、特にヴァイマール共和国に見
られるインフレは耐え難い危険であるという当時優勢であった意見があった。もう一つの理由として、額面価額で貸し付けている者は自
身が貸し付けたのと同価値の金を回復できる期待があったというものがある[citation needed]。フランスに支払わなければならない巨額
の賠償金を支払うための外貨を獲得するのに十分な商品を輸出・販売するために、ドイツは信用を犠牲にした成長の時代に入った。世
界の金の溜まる場所としてのアメリカ合衆国はドイツがフランスに償還するための基盤として産業化するための資金を貸し付け、フランス
はイギリスおよびアメリカに償還した。この流れはドーズ案に明文化された。
非常に高利の借金をして再融資もできない状態にあるか、低利率ではないときに資本財に融資するための貸し付けに依存している場
合、農業のような産業分野にとってデフレは辛いものとなりうる。負債の実質的価値が増加しているのに対して物価はデフレに浸食され
ていく。資産を現金で保持している者や、資産を投資・購買に充てたり資金を貸し付けたりしようとしている者にとってはデフレは有益であ
る。
ピーター・テミン、ベン・バーナンキ、バリー・アイケングリーンといった経済学者によるより近年の研究は、世界恐慌時に緊縮政策がとら
れていたことに着目している。この考え方によれば、戦間期の金本位制下での緊縮は最初の経済的ショックを拡大し、恐慌を食い止める
あらゆる行動に対して大きな障害となったという。彼らによれば、最初の不安定化させる衝撃はアメリカ合衆国のウォール街大暴落に起
因するが、外国に問題を伝播させたのは金本位制であるという[44]。
彼らの出した結論によると、危機の時代の政策決定者たちは金融政策・財政政策を緩和しようとしたが、そのような行動が、契約上の率
で金を交換する義務を維持する国家の能力を脅かしたという。外国の資産を金で買おうとする国際的投資家を引き付けるために、金本
